Year: 2022
Author: Sebsibus
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/BudgetAudiophile/comments/v0pq2u/why_are_cheap_class_d_stereo_amplifiers_so_boring/

DISCLAIMER: I'm not an audio equipment expert. I just recently became interested in this hobby. I really don't understand why there's not a single class D amplifier for under 500€ (≈$537) that I would want to buy. Don't get me wrong, there are dozens of brands offering great amps in this price category (SMSL, Aiyima etc.), but as a moderate audio enthusiast, all of these amps seem pretty boring to me. I think I'm not the only Hi-Fi enthusiast who appreciates a high quality enclosure that visually matches other components like a CD or media player. I think the same thing applies to stuff like well made knobs and switches or large VU-Meters. Buying from a large manufacturer like Denon or Yamaha does also offer other benefits, like better customer support, higher availability of spare parts and backwards compatibility. I recently bought an almost 30 year old Yamaha CD-Player. It blew my mind when I realized that I could use my modern Yamaha Remote to control this "ancient" piece of technology. So while amplifiers from companies like SMSL offer all the bells and whistles for a really good price, they're not something I would want to buy. But why are companies like Denon, Yamaha, Pioneer etc. refusing to sell cheap (<500) class D stereo amps with similar designs to their A/B counterparts (maybe a little bit smaller)? It's very confusing, because there are dozens of class D amps available, that fullfill all of the criteria I stated above (TEAC AX-505, Pioneer A70DA, Technics SU-R1000, Marantz Model 30 just to name a few). Unfortunately, all of these products are extremely expensive. Meanwhile, I can buy a Yamaha R-N303D class A/B Stereo Reciever for under 500€ with more features and similar specs (TEAC and Technics have more power though). I just don't understand why a 500€ (≈$537) class A/B amp has more features and even a little bit more power than the 1400€ (≈ $1505) Pioneer A70DA. Both look absolutely stunning, are made by reputable audio brands and have awesome switches and knobs on their front face plates. Audiophiles might prefer the sound of the Pioneer, but this still doesn't excuse the much higher price. Especially because class Ds are cheaper to manufacture, right? I think there are a lot of similarities between the modern state of Hi-Fi and the glorious PC Masterrace. Most PC enthusiasts love to put their personalized hardware into unnecessary expensive and over-engineered cases, because they are proud of their equipment. You may have heard that Apple somewhat recently came out with a new and much more efficient desktop chip based on ARM instead of x86. I think many PC enthusiasts would love to use ARM-based chips, but they're not willing to trade all the personalization that's possible on a windows PC, for a bland Mac Computer from Apple, even if that means not being able to use more efficient processors. I hope this will change in the future, because I appreciate the efficiency and technology behind class D amplification.
