Year: 2022
Author: eric_twinge
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/iamveryfit/comments/zcddlh/i_know_this_is_hard_for_you_to_follow_so_im_going/

I know this is hard for you to follow, so I’m going to try one more time. The R in TRT isn’t replacing anything. When you are on TRT, it means you are given Testosterone or T, or anabolic steroid, that’s a synthetic form. Synthetic means it’s not made by the body, but is given to you from an outside source, like your doctors in the form of TRT or deca from your local black market through your bodybuilder . Some people like OP here is most likely not getting his TRT from his PCP but is getting it from his local gym bodybuilder that sells T in the form of anabolic steroids, or the ‘street version TRT’. OP is not replacing his T, he is adding a synthetic version to his body, via through his doctor or the street version. You’re being told by big Pharma via doctors that TRT is not anabolic steroid but is a ‘replacement’ of testosterone. It’s a lie. When you are on TRT, you are given a synthetic or exogenous steroids, or steroids not made by the body. Steroids made by the body is called endogenous and your body will never make more then what you need. That’s why no matter how hard OP trains, he won’t look that much different than the first picture, hence natty. The second pic OP is not natty. He calls it being on TRT but I highly doubt it. OP is most likely taking ‘anabolic steroids’ or his version of being on TRT through the street version, aka deca. How do we know? Because your PCP is supposed to test you to see how much TRT to give you. Testosterone level in a normal adult is supposed to be between 300 ng/fl to 1000ng/dl. But being within that range even with TRT, he wouldn’t look all swollen like he does now, because it’s in the normal range of every average male adult. Because he’s swollen, he’s not in that range. Which either means he’s not natty or on the street version of TRT or on a slim chance OP is taking TRT through his PCP but PCP is not monitoring his T blood test and is given him free range to take what ever dosage of TRT he wants, which is the same as him being on ‘roids’. The only difference is that it’s given to him by a doctor so it’s ‘legit’ and not by your local gym rat bodybuilder pushing deca.
