Year: 2022
Author: DiggingNoMore
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Windows11/comments/zyg12u/considering_dualbooting_windows_7_and_windows_11/

I am currently running Windows 7. Please don't get caught up in anything about updates or security or anything. I don't want this conversation to get derailed. Anyway, it's getting to the point where games don't always run on Windows 7. Obviously I haven't moved to Windows 10 and still don't intend to. But I'm looking at using Windows 11 to run games, as needed. I'm running a machine that I built in 2016, which was quite high-end back then: * Intel i7 6700k * 32GB DDR4-3200 * GTX 1080 * 256GB SSD * 3x 2TB HDD Obviously, since I'm running Windows 7, I haven't installed an OS in a long time. So things may have changed in recent years. My Windows 7 OS was installed from a disc (I have a blu-ray drive in my machine). My understanding is that people use ISOs on flash drives now, but I have no idea how to do that. I'm used to reformatting the drive, popping in my install disc, and rebooting. To complicate matters, I have bunch of physical drives. As you can see from my spec list, I have a single 256GB SSD, which I'm using as my boot drive (and I have a couple games and some major programs installed on it). Then I have three 2TB HDDs. One is for my documents, spreadsheets, pictures, songs, videos, etc. The other two 2TB drives are exclusively for installing games. Anyway, my understanding is that each OS needs its own partition. My C:\ drive, the SSD, is just the one partition presently. I'm operating under the following considerations: 1) Best-case scenario: Something like this works and I can create a second partition on the drive without having to reformat Windows 7 off of it first. 2) Second-best-case scenario: I have to reformat the boot drive, create two partitions out of it, install Windows 7 on one and install Windows 11 on the other. Followed by reinstalling Office 2016, Visual Studio 2013, and a few other things. 3) Worst-case scenario: I have to do everything in option two, but now the operating system(s) won't recognize the other drives at all and I'll have to: 1) restore all my documents, etc from a backup and; 2) most miserably, have to download all the games I have on those other two drives again, over 2TB worth, on my 5Mbps connection, which will take weeks. I also have the complication that I'm running an i7 6700k, which, if my understanding is correct, isn't technically supported by Windows 11. But I'm under the impression that it will install on a 6700k machine if it's a full install instead of an upgrade-in-place or whatever. I'm also a bit concerned about the whole DirectX 11 on Windows 7 while using DirectX 12 on Windows 11, but hopefully that's not a problem. I know my GPU can support either. I also assume that I'm going to have to buy a Windows 11 Pro CD key, since my Windows 7 key is obviously still in use, which will cost me $199 to buy directly from Microsoft, but that's fine. I guess my question is whether this plan is doable and whether I should expect myself to end up in scenario 1, scenario 2, or scenario 3 so I know how much work I'm getting myself into. And, again, please don't derail the conversation with advice about the wisdom of still running Windows 7. I just want to talk about the technical side. Thanks for any help.
