Year: 2020
Author: AuthenticWeeb
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Bioshock/comments/is0mbq/bioshock_infinite_ending/

I'm about 7 years late but I just finished Bioshock Infinite and loved it. I'm just wondering if my understanding of the ending is correct. So Booker DeWitt is a former soldier who has trauma from what happened at the "Wounded Knee". Soon after the war he attends a baptism to "wash away his sins" from the war, this is a constant, meaning that it is an event that will happen across all realities. The variable is that he chooses whether to go through with the baptism or not. In some realities he chooses to get baptised, and is reborn as Zachary Comstock. In other realities, he chooses not to get baptised and continues living as Booker DeWitt. So from my understanding, The re-born Booker (now Zachary) goes onto founding Columbia and being the Prophet in the city. On the other hand, the Booker DeWitt who didn't get baptised has a daughter, Anna. Zachary Comstock, now being a Prophet, finds out he is sterile and was not able to have a baby with Lady Comstock. So with the help of Rosalind Lutece he uses tears to open a door to a reality where he has a child. Inevitably, the only realities where Comstock has a child, is when he is Booker DeWitt. So Rosalind Lutece contacts herself/himself in the reality where Comstock has a child (also where she is born as a boy, Robert Lutece, and Columbia doesn't exist). Once Robert Lutece listens to his alternate counterpart Rosalind, he goes to Booker DeWitt and Booker sells his daughter, Anna, to Robert. Robert then brings the baby back to Rosalind and she opens a tear to the reality where Zachary Comstock doesn't have a child and is in need of one due to him being sterile. However, Booker wants to back out of the deal and confronts Zachary. This is when Zachary and Rosalind both travel to their reality, taking Anna with them, and Robert also tags along. Booker DeWitt does not go through the tear, and lives 20 years of his life in regret for what he has done to his daughter. Zachary Comstock then betrays Rosalind and Robert, killing them, and changes Anna's name to Elizabeth. However, Rosalind and Robert somehow manage to survive in a different reality? (Not sure how that happens) and get revenge on Zachary Comstock by going back to Booker DeWitt and telling him that he can wash away his debt of selling his daughter. They open the tear to the same reality where Anna, now Elizabeth, was taken and give Booker a chance for redemption. Booker suffers some form of amnesia and doesn't remember this, he thinks he is going to Columbia to bring the girl to New York to wash away a gambling debt. Then, in order to prevent Zachary Comstock from ever taking Anna away in the first place is to ensure he is never born. This, funnily enough, is the moment where DeWitt is baptised. So Anna/Elizabeth along with Booker, change the course of events across all realities by forming a new constant where Booker DeWitt is drowned at the baptism, replacing the variable where he chooses whether to get baptised or not. This prevents Zachary Comstock from ever being "born", but simultaneously, it also means Booker dies and never has Anna. This is why all the Elizabeth's/Anna's dissapear at the end. There is of course "our" Anna who remains standing, but once the screen goes black it can be assumed she also dissapears. So the end of the game means they've put a stop to the infinite loop of Booker DeWitt becoming Zachary Comstock. Columbia never gets built (or if it does Comstock is not a part of it), Booker DeWitt dies, and Anna is never born. The entire story becomes a sort of hypothetical dream, all converged in the moment where Booker dies. Which beautifully symbolises that he finally washed away his debt through the baptism where Anna drowns him. Let me know if I'm wrong about any of the parts. I'm also curious as to how Rosalind and Robert manage to get to Booker after being betrayed by Comstock, since as far as I know he killed them.
