Year: 2024
Author: Darnitol1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/NCL/comments/1dcw07b/first_ncl_cruise_am_i_asking_too_much_here/

After half a year of planning and excitement, my wife and I boarded the Norwegian Sun for the May 29 to June 7 Alaskan cruise. We had paid the extra fee to choose our cabin to make sure we would be close to the things we wanted to do and far away from noisy venues and heavy traffic. After boarding we waited by the door to the staterooms and were literally the first two people down the hallway when the stewards let us in. We were excited to check in to our cabin, so imagine our surprise when we unlocked the door and found someone else's luggage already strewn about the cabin, with no sign of whomever the luggage belonged to. We alerted the stewards, who found a supervisor with a radio to call Guest Services. He said he was checking on it, but from that point forward, none of the stewards would talk to us, including the guy on the radio. No one on the floor did or said anything to help us. So we went to Guest Services ourselves, where I told them what was going on: I unlocked my stateroom and found that someone else had already checked in, before guests were even supposed to have access to staterooms. The woman at Guest Services took on a very condescending attitude, like I was somehow attempting to scam the cruise line. Without providing any options, she told me that we were reassigned to another stateroom "of the same level." So basically, I paid to choose my stateroom, but because of some insane screw up on NCL's part, I was instead assigned whatever they had leftover, which was very near a loud stage show, and literally the entire ship's length away from the places I had paid extra to be near. Since there were no other choices, we checked into the new cabin assignment. Somehow, by the time we could walk to that cabin, our shore excursion tickets were already waiting for us on the bed (so was this reassignment actually a mistake at all?) The next morning I checked the NCL app and saw that our dinner reservations were no longer showing up. So I went back to Guest Services and described that my dinner reservations were missing, and I had paid extra to choose my cabin that involved much more walking than my wife or I wanted to do, but instead got an assigned cabin, so therefore I would like to be reimbursed for the extra cost of selecting my cabin, and I wanted my original dinner reservations reinstated. By chance I got the same smarmy Guest Services agent as the day before, and she immediately set about pretending to help by offering unpleasant alternatives. At no point would she address, in any way, that I had asked for compensation for the extra money I paid to choose my cabin. I mentioned that I chose the original cabin because it would mean less walking to the activities my wife and I wanted to do, and the agent condescendingly asked if my wife needed a wheelchair. When I said no, she immediately started typing on her terminal, telling me that she was just going to assign us back to the original cabin (you know, the one someone else apparently still had access to at any time). I pointed out that the inconvenience of having to repack everything and move it literally all the way across the ship was more hassle than the solution she was offering, and that I was just asking for my reservations to be reinstated and for a refund of the fee I'd paid to NOT get assigned a cabin by NCL. Again, she totally ignored the "refund" part and, without so much as looking at her terminal, said, "Your reservations are still there; they're just not showing up on your app." I said, "But I can't see or confirm that, so I'm sure you can imagine why I'm concerned." She nodded and stared at me. So I asked, "Do you have any way of checking, here, to confirm that I still have reservations?" She typed in her terminal, and instead of confirming anything, she asked me when my reservation was for. I told her, and THEN she responded, "Yes, it's still there. When do you want to move them to?" I insisted that I still wanted my original reservation. When the night for that reservation arrived, we went to Cagney's, and were told that our reservation was actually for the NEXT night. They served us anyway, but clearly, either the Guest Services agent was incompetent, or purposefully screwed up our reservation. My wife also had a spa reservation that suspiciously was ALSO bumped forward a full day from the paper receipt she had when she made the reservation. Overall, the crew and staff of the NCL Sun were wonderful. They were extremely polite and helpful, and we tipped extra to show our appreciation. The ship was well maintained and the food was above that of any of the other budget cruise lines. But my experience with NCL Guest Services is literally the worst customer service I've ever gotten from a cruise line. So I ask you: Since I paid to choose my stateroom but instead was assigned one by NCL, was I out of line to politely ask to have that fee refunded? (It's actually a line item on the receipt, in fact.) TL;DR: Due to an NCL screw up, I was assigned a stateroom instead of getting the one I paid extra to choose, but NCL refused to refund the fee I paid to pick my stateroom.
