Year: 2024
Author: d0aflamingo
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/askdentists/comments/1c2chr0/urgent_left_the_wisdom_tooth_removal_surgery/

M31 No history of teeth disease Currently on Finastride 1mg ed I got diagnosed with pericoronitis by my GP and he suggested the dentist near him. The dentist looked young but said he had 22 yrs of exp and he recommended removal of wisdom tooth as i suspected. I was prescribed Amoxicylin & painkiller by GP. Dentist gave Enzoflam for pain. Removal was scheduled to monday but pain was getting worse so decided to get it today. I saw a lot of videos on removal. First red flag was i think he used 27 or 30 gauge needle, whereas in videos they used very thin special kind of needle for anesthesia in gums. The anesthesia kicked in, he put incision in my gum that didnt hurt. But then when he tried to pry my wisdom tooth with the instrument it started paining. A LOT. To the point where the pain entered my head. He stopped and put some more anesthesia. Total 4 shots now. He again tried to pry my teeth out and it pained like i am going to die. LITERALLY DIE. I am not exaggerating And i have high pain tolerance. I walked off a head injury that required me 8 stiches on my scalp (was hit by bamboo tree on back of the head). Knee ligament tore and ribs broken. Did not cry. But today i did. And i still have tears in my eyes as im writing this. IT FUCKING HURT. I felt this was it, i was about to pass out when i asked him to stop. He stopped and i walked out, he suggested we try after 8 days. My confusion is i saw a lot of videos where extraction was simple and painless. People say it ached after the surgery not during it. Why did i feel so much pain , like he was ripping my tooth out without any anesthesia. I could feel every nerve on that tooth. He tried breaking a part of teeth only after i suggested him, and that too on the 2nd try. First time he said we'll pull it out entirely, second time he broke off 1/4 of where he said the infection was. Am i wrong ? was the dentist right ? Im asking this cause i saw and asked a lot of people who said it pains after few hours surgery not during it. Can i do this under full anesthesia (unconcious) if its going to be this painful ? someone please help, i would rather live with an infection all my life than go through the same pain again EDIT: i just remembered he did not use the drill at all until i asked him to break teeth into pieces. A lot of videos are showing it as second step after incision. He just cut the gum and started prying my tooth EDIT #2: Got a second opinion from more experienced doctor. He did not badmouth the previous one, just said that its highly unusual that so much pain would occur, he said maybe you were not properly anesthesized He also said 27gauge is normal, so i was wrong there
