Year: 2024
Author: browneyegayguy
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/heartbreak/comments/19axmp8/i_dont_know_what_to_do/

Just broke up with my 1st long term serious BF of 2 years almost a week ago. We do still live together, although we sleep in separate rooms. The house is definitely quiet and different not being able to be around him. He came to me saying that he just didn’t really feel a connection anymore. He said I didn’t do anything, it’s not my fault and he feels bad for doing this to me. The writing was on the wall, the past month he behaved a lot more distant. I figured something was gonna happen, just still hurts that it actually did. I understand that you shouldn’t stay in a relationship where you don’t feel anything, it’s just still hurts though. The feeling of abandonment. I’ve had my big break down, so feel better but still sad. We did have a rough start, but made it better and fixed things. We both tried, but things seem to be bigger than us. I just think that maybe if I tried harder, was less stubborn, or pay more attention or shared his interests more, this wouldn’t have happened. He too had a hard time with my interest. They were just very different. Him- games and anime , me more so reading, drawing etc. He said he never had an issue, nor did I. It feels disrespectful to put the gifts or his things away or delete the pictures. The other side of the bed is still empty, I don’t sleep there cause it’s “his side.” And all those memories of things we did and we’ve been through come back in waves. The idea of eventually leaving the house, seeing our bedroom so empty and leaving (good lord , in this rental market) the past 2 years behind almost makes me wanna just stay. There’s no hard feelings between us, we’re still civil and kind to each other when we see each other. Finding a new place may also mean leaving my kitties! No partner and losing my cats, cause a lot of places are pet free sadly. Moving forward, I don’t know what I’ll do. When I’m in my new place. I’d wanna distract myself with hook ups, but is that healthy or too soon?? Definitely nothing romantic for a long time. I guess I have to figure out my new routine and what I like? No one to come back to and tell my day to, no one to try new restaurants with. All my friends have seen to dwindle away , and some are leaving for like a month. Just feels so lonely right now.
