Year: 2024
Author: Serpenthrope
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Forgotten_Realms/comments/1ctgtyb/questions_about_yuguloths/

Okay, I'm currently in a game where I'm playing as a Warlock of Anthraxus. Basically my backstory is that my character is from Vaasa and has low Wisdom, so when he found out about Yuguloths all he got was "they're mercenaries, so as long as I pay them they won't screw me!" Now, my relationship with my Patron has nothing to do with the campaign. However, my character wants to free his homeland, and wants to stay on Anthraxus' good side so hopefully he'll help him out. We've agreed that my character is Chaotic Neutral, but has a moral code saying it's okay to sacrifice someone to Anthraxus as long as the sacrifice is someone who tried to kill him (my DM isn't interested in elaborate rituals, so my character can just walk around the battlefield after a fight, check if any enemies still have a pulse, and stab them with a ritual dagger if they do). However, I'm curious about a few things (like I said, will probably all end up being background fluff and I've probably asked my DM enough questions): -There don't seem to be a lot of Yuguloth-based cults like there are with Devils and Demons. I know Yuguloth's tend to have plans that are a lot less straight forward, but in theory getting souls should still give them power. So, will Anthraxus care if I send him a trickle of souls that would otherwise have gone to some evil god? -I know from the Brimstone Angels novels that sometimes souls' destinations can be disputed after death (there was a fight over an Orc soul because he had a pact with a Glasyan Cambion, but was sacrificed to Asmodeus). Am I likely to accidentally start a fight between Anthraxus and an evil god like Maglubiyet or Gruumsh? And if so will Anthraxus be pissed at me for the trouble? -As a Warlock am I in any way qualified to negotiate on my Patron's behalf to sign other people up for contracts? -Since he isn't technically a god, would Anthraxus benefit if I started a cult worshipping him? Or does prayer only benefit beings with a divine spark?
