Year: 2024
Author: bowlbettertalk
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/opera/comments/1av60m0/review_rigoletto_opera_san_jose_21824/

The venue: smaller than the War Memorial, but I actually think that's better for the singers acoustically. Beautifully decorated, and as always I loved the organist in the lobby prior to the performance playing "I Get a Kick out of You." The audience: Plentiful, although on the older side. Mostly well-behaved; someone's phone went off during "Caro Nome," but they at least had the decency to find it and turn it off. Extremely appreciative of the cast, which I'm sure they appreciated, as a number of them were covers. The work: I took a course on Verdi and Wagner in college during which the professor noted the musical parallels between Rigoletto and Mozart's Don Giovanni, and I definitely heard those during this performance. It was more of an homage than plagiarism, but it was still interesting to hear the parallels. And as always, I love Verdi in general and this opera in particular (although Traviata is my favorite). The production: More or less traditional, with some interesting stage business thrown in here and there (Gilda's book became a dramatically significant prop). I liked that Maddalena was the one to stab Gilda, although I didn't understand why Gilda would fight back if she were consciously sacrificing herself in lieu of the Duke. If the director is reading this, perhaps they can explain this choice. The main cast: As mentioned above, several of the main characters were sung by covers because of scheduling conflicts. Robert Balonek (Rigoletto) sang his part as if it were the chance of a lifetime to sing the role of a lifetime, and his performance reflected that. The staging called for a great deal of physicality from his character in particular, but he never seemed out of breath or tired. I also enjoyed WooYoung Yoon (Duke of Mantua), who had solid high Cs and an understanding of how to play a libertine without lapsing into cliche. Alexandra Halchak (Gilda) didn't have a trill and missed a few of her entrances (e.g. during her first duet with Rigoletto) but had killer high notes and a genuinely appealing voice and stage presence. The supporting cast: Clearly having a ball, and I was there for it. Ashraf Sewailam (Sparafucile) had a nicely focused voice and well-projected low notes, a must for this role. I first saw Melisa Bonetti Luna (Maddalena) in Romeo and Juliet, so seeing her again was a treat. Her Maddalena had swagger and guts, and her cackle after stabbing Gilda was appropriately unnerving. Courtney Miller is always a pleasure to see (her Berta in Barber of Seville was a hoot), and she made the most of the tiny role of Giovanna. The real standout to me, though, was Philip Skinner as Monterone, who reminded me with his booming voice and arresting stage presence how criminally underrated he is as a performer. As always, the chorus and orchestra were on point. tl;dr Never underestimate the B cast.
