Year: 2024
Author: Mayafoe
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/dune/comments/1cthnz0/spoiler_discussion_all_things_hayt_before_and/

[Edit...obviously SPOILERS here....read at your peril! :) ] I feel like I should meditate before writing this.... I audiobook GEOD before I sleep each night. I was listening to the ritual of 'Siaynoq', the sharing, the adoration of the GE....and a whole lot struck me about Duncan Idaho (well, that ghola of that time, and all the others before him). He is very much the witness of the scene....witnessing the awesome power of Leto's creation, an utterly fanatical, worshipful, Universe-wide female army of Fishspeakers.....and I realised how integral Duncan Idaho is to this Universe. I'm not sure I can put this all into words: Leto continues having a Duncan Idaho in his millennias-long life for so many reasons, some obvious and explicit (his breeding program, companionship, a 'connection to the past')....but, taking Leto's prescience into account there are a few more: *Leto knows that somehow a Duncan Idaho is integral to his own death....but...because all the gholas form a kind of continuum, he can't tell which one will do it......AND HE STILL CONTINUES HAVING THEM PRODUCED BECAUSE BEING KILLED (A SURPRISE!) IS PART OF HIS PLAN!* He still loves his Duncans, every one, delighting every time in encouraging their mind of awakening to what he is trying to do, to bring their minds to the necessity of his predation on a free society and the lesson that predation will teach when it ends through the right Duncan's efforts. Mindblowing! That Leto knows a Duncan will help kill him is even more incredible when also, as a reader, realising that *Leto makes each Duncan, by far, the 2nd most powerful person in the universe every time he brings one into existence.* During the feast of Siaynoq what is happening is Leto is creating a bind between the Fishspeakers and Idaho so that the billions and billions of Fishspeakers renew their loyalty to Duncan even as he pledges loyalty to Emperor Leto. *"WE SHARE! WE SHARE!"* Why? Because....Leto knows that when he dies the Fishspeakers will always have a leader to follow. "Male armies are only answerable to themselves.......but female armies attach to a leader" and he always makes sure they have two leaders, Himself, who has been there for 3000 years and a Duncan, who in a way is also always there, someone who will always be ready to fully lead them, for them to follow unwaveringly when Leto, as he knows he will, passes on. The God Emperor's vision is so vast....but by his own admission, not infinite! ----------- As a personal aside recently there was a post about 'who is your favourite Dune character' and I'd like to take this moment to say I most identify with Duncan Idaho (though Leto II is my favourite character, how could he not be?), though I certainly don't connect with him due to any inherent talent with the ladies...... I identify with Idaho because he has been killed and reborn so many times, each time in a state of confusion....so many lives lived....his experience smeared and mixed and, dare I say it, distilled and improved.... I loved in Children of Dune when we see the true power of a mentat's mind through his eyes.....and was so moved when those metal eyes are brought to tears at the loss of his love, Alya, taken by possession. Herbert's use of tears in this water-crucial story is exceptional. When Leto sheds tears of love to Hwi they burn his skin, but he is grateful for the pain, grateful he is still human enough to cry. We all die many times in life, and are reborn. Where is the child we once were? Where is that person who suffered a trauma and survived it? Where is that old home where we once lived? Who are we? How did we arrive here? What do I do now, not quite ever knowing the answers to those questions?
