Year: 2024
Author: Inferno221
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/CharacterRant/comments/1f4048i/the_arguments_against_ichiruki_as_a_ship_in/

I say this as someone who has been in the fandom for years but I've seen it all, and have yet to see an argument that is logical or even consistent in its stance for why ichigo should not have ended up with rukia. Things like: >Kubo planned ichigo and orihime to be together since the pilot chapter - First, having to rely on a scrapped pilot chapter instead of a story that spans 15 years tells me that you don't have much to point to in the actual runtime of the story. - Second, no one should care if an author planned something, they should really care if the writing is good. Otherwise, no one can dislike any work or story. - Third, if you're gonna say ichigo liked orihime based on that chapter, there's no way you can say ichigo didn't like rukia from the actual story. > Rukia is much older than ichigo Usually the people who say this also say the last arc was the best (despite huge plot points missing and fights being ended abruptly). And yet, a big thing revealed in the last arc was the backstory of ichigo's parents, one being a shinigami, the other a human. Despite that age gap being bigger than ichigo and rukia, they made it work. If you have to use this argument, this tells me you're just ignoring elements in the story that don't fit your narrative > Ichigo is always nicer to orihime, so he clearly likes her Never understood this argument. Ichigo usually yells at the people he's close to. Acting all polite just makes that relationship feel more distant. An example is here, with ichigo and riruka. Riruka likes ichigo, and the way he acts towards riruka isn't really all that different towards orihime. Then there's: >He went hollow for her, so he loves her The whole point of the hollow fight with ulquiorra was to payoff the buildup of ichigos hollow side taking over and showing how overpowered he is. That's what the "king and horse" speech zangetsu gave ichigo was about, zangetsu took over. There is also no "are you ok orihime?" after the fight or any communication between the two. It immediately takes us, the reader, to rukia worrying about what happened to ichigo and his fight. It also doesn't help that before she was taken to hueco mundo, she never had a 1-1 developing moment/arc with ichigo. Rukia had that with memories in the rain volume and the whole substitute arc. That made that the connection with ichigo and rukia more impactful than with orihime. >The anime was biased towards ichiruki, so that's where the misunderstanding comes from Kubo did review the anime scripts after the arrancar arc started (in the manga) but there's no word on how/if any involvement he had. But it doesn't help he drew stuff like this: Thing is, the pairings in the end aren't all that well written. There are no confession scenes. No proposal scenes. No kiss. Not even a hand-holding scene. Even in the postscript of WDKALY: >“Do you have any plans to draw Rukia’s wedding ceremony and the events surrounding it which occur before the final chapter?” >It began with this question from the Novel Editorial Department and with my answer that I had absolutely no plans to draw those events. >I’ve been able to draw the final chapter as I wanted to: blasting time forward in one go after the final battle and letting Ichigo’s and Rukia’s children meet. I didn’t have any plans to add anything more to that. Frustrating thing is, we, as a reader are meant to care about ichigo and rukia's relationship the most. Doesn't help when you have things like in the fullbringer arc. Ichigo didn't see rukia for 17 months. He could have shown ichigo dating orihime, but instead, shows how much he misses rukia. I don't know how I'm expected to take orihime's feelings seriously, if ichigo is having serious thoughts about someone else. In the end, out of all the things bleach could have ended about, it's about these two. But some people act as if it's about these two EDIT: I see I pissed off ichihime fans, let me be clear, you can like ichihime, there's nothing wrong with liking a ship, but if you're gonna throw insults at me without any arguments, or tell me to "Cope and seethe", it tells me I made good arguments.
