Year: 2024
Author: moistdragons
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/rant/comments/1dnstmk/everywhere_fun_is_ruined_because_its_crowded/

I went to water country USA with my wife on Thursday. We specifically chose Thursday thinking that it wouldn’t be too busy since it’s a weekday. We expected a crowd but not near as many people as there were. We drove 3 hours to get there. When we first arrived, we got there 15 minutes before they opened but there were 4 entire lanes of cars and they were all very full. After 30 minutes of waiting in line just to park we finally made it into the park. We bought a locker, put our stuff in, put on sunblock and changed then went to the rides. The first ride we went to had an extremely long line so we decided to buy quick queue (fast passes) which were $40 each so we didn’t spend our whole day in line. We had to wait in line to get the passes and it took 15 minutes to get through that line. We then went to the first ride, got in the quick queue line and still had to wait 25 minutes in the “quick” line. At this point I was very annoyed but I still wanted to have a good time. The next ride took another 25 minutes, the regular line was 4 times as long so they had to be waiting over an hour. At this point we were thirsty so we both bought a water but we couldn’t even find a spot to sit down because there were SO many people and everywhere but the ground was full. At this point more and more people were coming in and the next ride we had to wait 45 minutes for… in the quick line. Then the next one we had to wait over an hour for, these rides are only like 30 seconds long so we were waiting in the blazing heat for over an hour for 30 seconds of fun… why were there so many people there on a Thursday ? How the hell is that even fun ? We drove 3 hours, spent over $200 in total , just to stand in line all day and only be able to ride 5-6 things all day. I can’t imagine if we didn’t have the quick pass, we’d probably only get to ride 1-2 things. All of that money and time wasted just to stand in line all fucking day! I just wanted to have a fun fucking vacation but for some reason the park was packed on a THURSDAY. How the hell do they even run on the weekends ? I assume it’s probably twice as busy so even with the fast pass you wouldn’t be able to ride anything .
