Year: 2024
Author: LastManOnEarth3
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/alcoholicsanonymous/comments/1fwx09p/2_years_today/

By the grace of my higher power I just got 2 years sober. The process was difficult and involved this reeeeally complicated process which I’ll describe now. 1) I rigorously worked the steps as described in the big book and practiced these principles in most of my affairs 2) I ignored anything that didn’t flow from (1) 3) I did (1) and (2) all the time when it was easy to do so and most of the time when it was hard. I have found our text to be the ultimate design for living. I usually avoid discussion meetings. “What it was like” (experience) I lived. “What it’s like now” (hope) I believed could happen. “What happened” (strength) I knew nothing about and I later found that the process can be comprehensively summarized in about 164 pages. A lot happened in 2 years. I had a bad breakup, a death in the family, the struggles of getting back into school, raging homophobia and transphobia, a halfway house full of 16 year olds, a job teaching math at that halfway house after I moved out, and much more that I’ll keep to myself since you can easily find my personals from this account. If I had one piece of advice to give to the newcomer is that I would say to 100% focus on the instructions contained within the text with the help of other people who also focus 100% on the instructions contained within the text with the help of other people who also focus 100% on the information contained within the text with the help of… That book’s got some nifty stuff in it. How and why to pray. How and why to seek guidance. How to overcome fear and resentment. How to start your day. How to end your day. How to handle a spiritual adviser (sponsor). How to pick such a person. How to meditate. How and why to read other books. The fact that the book is only a beginning and more will be revealed later (some which might even contradict the book!) I’ve never had an issue our text didn’t describe some sort of guidance for. That’s how I got two years. Not “one day at a time” (into action describes “the 24 hours ahead” which differs from what I hear when folks talk about one day at a time). Not by venting at meetings. Not even particularly by fellowship or sponsorship. If these things are the cornerstone of your sobriety I suggest you keep doing those things but for me the original program as outlined in the BB changed my life forever. Some of these other things no doubt brought me closer to truth, which is suggested by the book and would’ve been really hard to do without. I have a non-codependent relationship, a few bucks, an apartment, and no drugs in my system. Perhaps most importantly I don’t wake up wishing I didn’t. Thank God. I could say lots more but I’d suggest just reading the book and DM’ing me if you want a clarification (or don’t! principles before personalities). Have I mentioned the book enough? If you have less than 30 days and have any interest in obtaining a book send me a DM and I’ll see what I can do about getting you a copy. I can mail about 3. Thank God this fellowship kept me around till I could get my eyes in the right places. It took me 3 years to get 1 year. If you think you may have a problem with drinking please give this program a chance, it really does work.
