Author: M. Goldman
Title: Abstract 7406: Visualization and analysis of cancer genomics data using UCSC Xena
Paper ID: 7638d6dfbf284347fb47691696cc492185b65d17
Year: 2024
Author Index: 8

Abstract:

 UCSC Xena (http://xena.ucsc.edu/) is a web-based visual integration and exploration tool for multi-omic data and associated clinical and phenotypic annotations. Researchers can easily view and explore public data, their own private data, or both using the Xena Browser. Private data are kept on the researcher's computer and are never uploaded to our public servers. We support Mac, Windows, and Linux.
 Questions Xena can help you answer:* Is overexpression of this gene associated with lower/higher survival?* What genes are differentially expressed between these two groups of samples?* What is the relationship between mutation, copy number, expression, etc for this gene?
 Xena showcases seminal cancer genomics datasets from TCGA, the Pan-Cancer Atlas, GDC, PCAWG, ICGC, and more; a total of more than 1500 datasets across 50 cancer types. We support virtually any type of functional genomics data: SNPs, INDELs, copy number variation, gene expression, ATAC-seq, DNA methylation, exon-, transcript-, miRNA-, lncRNA-expression and structural variants. We also support clinical data such as phenotype information, subtype classifications and biomarkers. All of our data is available for download via python or R APIs, or using our URL links.
 Our signature Visual Spreadsheet view shows multiple data types side-by-side enabling discovery of correlations across and within genes and genomic regions. We also have dynamic Kaplan-Meier survival analysis, powerful filtering and subgrouping, differential gene expression analysis, GSEA, charts, statistical analyses, genomic signatures, and the ability to generate URLs to live views.
 New features include:
 * Genome-wide differential gene expression analysis
 * GSEA analysis
 * Select samples directly from the screen for filtering and creating subgroups
 * Loading of Microsoft Excel files
 Our beta prototype site for visualizing single-cell data delivers million-cell-scale multi-omics data for interactive visualization in a web browser. Contact us for access to our beta prototype site.
 If you use us please cite our publication in Nature Biotechnology: https://www.nature.com/articles/s41587-020-0546-8
 Citation Format: Mary Goldman, Brian Craft, Jingchun Zhu, David Haussler. Visualization and analysis of cancer genomics data using UCSC Xena [abstract]. In: Proceedings of the American Association for Cancer Research Annual Meeting 2024; Part 1 (Regular Abstracts); 2024 Apr 5-10; San Diego, CA. Philadelphia (PA): AACR; Cancer Res 2024;84(6_Suppl):Abstract nr 7406.