Author: Alka T. Rawekar
Title: Artificial Intelligence in Genetics
Paper ID: d87bead31c4e8371535453faa9cc543e6fb80c74
Year: 2024
Author Index: 17

Abstract:
The simulation of human intelligence in robots that are designed to think and learn like humans is known as artificial intelligence (AI). AI is creating a world that has never been seen before. By applying AI to do jobs that would otherwise take a long time, humans have the chance to improve our planet. AI has great potential in genetic engineering and gene therapy research. AI is a powerful tool for creating new hypotheses and helping with experimental techniques. From the previous data of a gene model, it can help in the detection of heredity and gene-related disorders. AI developments offer an excellent possibility for rational drug discovery and design, eventually impacting humanity. Drug development and discovery depend greatly on AI and machine learning (ML) technology. Genetics is not an exception to this trend, as ML and AI are expected to have an impact on nearly every aspect of the human experience. AI has significantly aided in the treatment of various biomedical conditions, including genetic disorders. In both basic and applied gene research, deep learning - a highly versatile branch of AI that enables autonomous feature extraction - is increasingly exploited. In this review, we cover a broad spectrum of current uses of AI in genetics. AI has enormous potential in the field of genetics, but its advancement in this area may be hampered in the future by a lack of knowledge about the accompanying difficulties that could mask any possible benefits for patients. This paper examines AI's potential significance in advancing precision genetic disease treatment, provides a peek at its use in genetic clinical care, examines a number of existing AI and ML uses in genetics, provides a clinician primer on critical aspects of these technologies, and makes predictions about AI's potential future applications in genetic illnesses.