Year: 2022
Author: gman1230321
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/DestinyTheGame/comments/v1eqw6/destiny_should_add_an_official_expert_guide_system/

I’m right now trying a different game called Star Citizen. In the launcher for the game they had a suggestion to check out their expert guide system. It’s a website very similar to discord but with a “Find a Guide” section. In it you can see all of the available guides and can filter by specialties. Then you can request them and start talking. From what I understand, these guides are just volunteers that you can just talk with and they act as sort of “tour guides” I haven’t yet tried this feature myself but I feel like something similar would really help new lights. The most common reason I hear of new lights dropping the game is because they don’t know what to do or how to do it. The other problem people don’t talk about is the accessibility to help. I know of many discord servers with hundreds of volunteers that want to help new players, including myself, but new players don’t know that these resources exist, making them useless. I understand making in game tutorials for EVERYTHING would be really hard, but that’s fine because bungie doesn’t need to. What they really need is an official and in game accessible way to lead new players to resources, such as a “tour guide” system. Call it “Guiding Light” or something. I know so many people, including myself, that would love to do this. This system gives new lights not only an opportunity to talk to someone with some real experience in the game, but it also gives players an easy connection to the community. One downside/hard-to-fix part would be moderation and vetting. It seams star citizen has solved this issue somewhat by using a proprietary platform instead of discord, giving them full control and a way to link to the game. Edit: Yes guided games are a thing but 1. Let’s be realistic, they’re bad. 2: I’m talking about a system for destiny as a whole, not just a raid or smth. In a game as large and intricate like destiny, it’s impossible to put everything in an in game guide. Not to mention, these guides can also help with things like teaching new lights what is a “Good gun“ versus a “bad gun“ or even just gun recommendations in general. Maybe even build recommendations. These aren’t things that Bungie would not realistically be able to implement into the game as guides.
