Year: 2022
Author: Brought2UByAdderall
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/BBBY/comments/w2tt58/repost_from_super_a_smidge_more_interest_in_bbby/

Edit: I was under the impression Super was cool with talking about other tickers if relevant to GME, but they killed this so, per interest from the cross post here, I'm re-posting. Anyway, flaired as question/discussion because this is a lot of speculation aimed at sparking more thought into the question: "Could it be money well-spent towards the goal of setting GME off to move a small fraction of our buying from GME to BBBY, potentially causing another costly liquidity crisis for them to manage?" Edit-edit: And note, this was targeting super as an audience. GME is obviously my primary target in all of this, but I'm of course not going to get on anybody's case here if you're only here for $BBBY here at r/bbby. # First of all, let me be very clear: * I don't know for sure. I'm just struck by how hard they hit BBBY after the first split announcement and the action since we got a split date. I am hoping to broach the subject for DISCUSSION, not to divide or cause inter-warring among the ape clans or start a thing people blindly do without thinking about it. We've seen some of those. My main hope is that this just gets looked at. Maybe some people find some even better info than I'm providing, etc. * I don't think anybody should sell shares of GME... for any other stock before this is over. Because that would be dumb. * I don't think BBBY is nearly as big a play as GME. Nor that it should distract overly much from GME. * This is about GME. If people try to make it not about GME, they're missing the point. # So here's the gist/TLDR of what I'm thinking: * BBBY has been one of the more interesting of the swap stocks in most obvious part because RC bought in and started shuffling management like he did for $GME but for many other reasons I'll elaborate on. * BBBY has been hammered hard for months. It was 20+ around the time RC bought in. It is now fighting for over $5 putting it's market capitalization at an absurdly low level compared to its revenue and assets. * This hammering didn't start right after RC bought in. It started after the first split announcement, which came later. * What are they worried about? * BBBY has a very similar float/outstanding to BBBY, yet price is merely $5. It's not hard to add some BBBY without ever adding more shares than GME, while having minimal impact on your GME bottom line, assuming you think it would make sense to buy some. # WTF Happened to BBBY in Recent Months? I repeat. WTF are they worried about? They didn't know whether the split vote had yet gone through, nor when it would really hit at the point that they started aggressively running BBBY down. But run it down they did. From a high of 27.22 the day before we knew about the split to $5 now. &#x200B; RC Buy-in excites, they hammer down, GME first split announcement, no date, yet BAM! # Why is This Weird? * Well, back in 1996, BBBY was trading at about $5 (splits adjusted so same market cap). Earnings as of February 25, 1996 were \~600 million gross and a not-so-whopping 39.4 mill net. * BBBY's performance in recent years has stunk. It's been lousy on top of Covid, supply chain, etc, even compared to competitors. But current gross income? Last annual report was 2.6 billion. Yes, in the red at -600 million net. But clearly this is a much larger company and in the middle of some nasty, but temporary circumstances. Furthermore, BuyBuy Baby alone is worth more than all of its other assets combined, possibly a couple billion, and RC wants to sell that (imagine if they announced a sale this week). This is not a $400 million market cap company and everybody evaluating it knows damn well it isn't. # But What About Squeeze Factor? * One of the things I find truly fascinating about this stock is that its outstanding has been shrinking, steadily for at least close to a decade, across multiple management teams, through buyback programs. It had a lot of splits in its heyday but since 2014 at least, its outstanding has shrunk from 240+ million to where it's at now, 79 mill (about where GME is at). * More recently, the shrinking factor is interesting because the last reported SI before the sneeze, was something like 60%. If, like GME, very little of that was closed, BBBY would be short in excess of its current float of about, again similar to GME, 69 mill. That's before we factor in whatever swap foolishness and FTD information we can gather to determine that they may well be even shorter than that. And would need to be, because maybe they covered more of BBBY than the SEC says they did in GME. * More long term, the shrinking factor is interesting to me because BBBY is unique among the swap stocks for having these epic volume spikes every 4-5 months. A lot of them coincide with stuff like the RC buy-in but was that really an over 100% of outstanding volume event? Remember though that the float is forever shrinking so these spikes are less extreme the further back they go here. But I haven't found other swap stocks with volume jumps this extreme, including GME. I suspect this is shorts regularly realizing they need to make an adjustment. Or if I'm wrong, at least something juicy requiring regular rebalancing, adjusting, is happening here, and it requires moving an awful lot of shares around. Note that volume exceeds the highest at the time of the sneeze after 1/28/21. (there are several bars close together at the sneeze though) BBBY volume spikes over the last 5 years * Important note: BBBY sneezed with GME. It about tripled its value. We all know GME did a hell of a lot better than that. I repeat: NOT THE SAME PLAY. But it might fuck them up to nom-nom their collateral from a new, slightly still semi-liquid direction. * BBBY's borrow rates are currently 6.1%. This doesn't seem like much compared to 2 and 3 figure GME rates we've seen but it took GME two weeks to get from 2% to double-digits for the first time recently and BBBY hit 6% a couple days ago. Fidelity has dropped to 0 shares/hard to borrow a couple times since I've been watching. It's only 34k shares last I checked. * Edit: Another point of interest I forgot in the original post - there are an awful lot of block trades in this stock. These are between big boy trades over 10k shares. DOJ recently made some noise about block trades being used to trade insider info, but not sure if that matters here. When we had that big volume spike recently it was over 240ish IIRC. At the time of this edit (7/19 - 10:44 Eastern) I'm seeing 11 block trades at 2.6 million volume total for the day so far. This is a lot compared to GME, which sees like 1, maybe 2 a day at volumes under 4 mill. # So How Relevant to GME? * It clearly has some squeeze, not MOASS, potential. * They dipped the !@#$ out of it ever since the first split announcement. So what worried about? Another stonk eating into collateral while trying to manage GME? * It has a similar float/outstanding. * It's 5 freaking bucks. Similar float. If you don't buy more than your GME you're barely hitting your potential position in GME. I started buying whole shares of GME with money I moved to my Fidelity account and then just started buying BBBY with whatever was left over a month ago. I already bought a smidge more than my total GME shares by accident. * TLDR on last two bullet points: We don't have to really distract from GME more than 3%, to potentially fuck them on another front if there's a there here. They clearly want this stock down hard. What if it starts to run a bit? How does that impact collateral for GME? Maybe the best way to fuck shorts up is to light a fire under an ass they didn't know we knew they had.
