Year: 2021
Author: CosmicRamen
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/SuicideWatch/comments/mry0lv/so_very_tired/

I’m tired of a lot of things. Basically you name it, and it exhausts me. I could handle this (more or less) when it was only personal things in my life, but lately I’ve been tired with the whole world. I can‘t see myself living on this planet for 70 more odd years. Any future I could even possibly tolerate is one where the world and myself are significantly more stable than they are now and maybe ever will be. I know a lot of people feel this way, but I think a lot of people have developed hobbies that help them decompress during moments of world-weariness. I haven’t really, and I’m afraid it might be too late to learn one because I feel so impatient. I love art, especially film, video games, and literature, and as far back as I can remember I’ve always wanted to be a writer, but whenever I try to everything on my mind just feels so overwhelming that I can’t find joy in it. I think I might be more hopeful about the future if it weren’t for the Internet. I really hate Internet culture, especially social media. The thought of a kid growing up now and being exposed to all this awful shit easily available and absorbing all of it is horrifying to me. I can only imagine the next generation growing up and fighting actual infantry wars over which version of Lola Bunny they like the most or something, assuming this generation doesn‘t get there first. In a perfect world, the only thing on the Internet would be Wikipedia and Google Earth. It makes me pine for a time when the convenience of the Internet existed but it didn’t totally dominate everything (I.e., the nineties.) And I don’t mean to sound like a born-in-the-wrong-generation kid, I’m sure I’m being overly cynical about it, but I still believe that the cons of social media outweigh the pros. It all makes me very tired. I don’t fantasy about killing myself per se, but frequently I picture myself dying (painlessly) and it gives me actual butterflies in my stomach because of how happy it makes me in that moment. Just lying on the ground and looking up at the sky and finally being able to leave this world and all its chaos behind feels like it’d be blissful. TL;DR: I’m tired.
