Year: 2021
Author: Rexxington
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/TrueOffMyChest/comments/rdbqnn/professors_can_be_a_big_reason_why_students_do/

So right now I am in the dilemma of passing, yet failing at the same time due to my professor simply not being a good one at all. I had a final paper I had to entirely redo, and in the span of time I had I felt I did an okay job. We were supposed to be writing it over the span of an entire semester, and when she finally got back on mine far late into the term. I had to redo mine, and I spoke to her on Wednesday December 1st. Well she told me what I did wrong, and I asked if I could email her to see what she thought of the revised edition and she said yes. I told her IN PERSON I would email it to her Friday, and she agreed and acknowledged that fact. Well I wrote it out over Wednesday and Thursday, and sent it to her Thursday night. The paper was due December 5th at 9 A.M., and I never heard from her once, and so I did the best I could and submitted it the night before. Never heard from her again until today when she graded it, and gave me a ZERO. Now if you fail this project the professor has the power to mark my grade as incomplete, and means even though I passed EVERY SINGLE OTHER assignment. With A's and B's to boot, I fail because of one assignment and have to redo the ENTIRE course. Rage does not explain how I feel right now, I did my part to a T, I asked for help, I spoke to her, I emailed her. In which she did not respond, only marked up my first paragraph, and then zeroed it, and told me we will have to discuss my next steps. I'm sorry but this is utter fucking crap, I had serious time constraints, you chose not to respond to me to at least mark it then and guide me on what to do. The literal intent of this entire project from the start seeing as we were writing it over the entire semester. Yet here I am, facing about to be slapped with an incomplete, and force me into academic trouble, seeing as I didn't pass my Ochem and this could put me in trouble. The silver lining is if I have to repeat, it will not be with the same professor, and hopefully the new one will actually pay the fuck attention to their email. With the latter being giving a fucking crap over screwing people over like she so thoroughly did to me right now. Seeing as I may be forced to repeat something I passed, yet due to ONE assignment will force a fail. If you are a teacher or professor, you need to understand that as students we rely on you. To be able to ask questions, to be able to understand what we need to do to succeed. To know that your listening and paying attention. Over just being like my current one that just doled out an F with zero shits given and then forcing a student into a repeat of the course. All because she never replied, and she blatantly doesn't give a crap. The only hope I can see is if she finally replies in a timely manner for once, as today is the technical last day of classes, and I have time to work out what needs to be fixed. In the hopes of getting a passing score on it, or depending on when they have to have grades posted. Fix it before the deadline if she's actually a good professor and works with me for once this entire damn semester.
