Year: 2021
Author: roonilwazlib96
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/tifu/comments/qjpi7o/tifu_by_being_too_committed_to_my_halloween_makeup/

This one isn’t as bad as other FUs I’ve seen, but still mildly amusing/fucked. I’m currently writing this with the help of some very inaccurate speech to text whilst I scrub my face. Anyone who knows me knows I really really really love Halloween. It’s basically my Christmas time, and as a make up enthusiasts and spooky expert I love doing Halloween make up in particular. I didn’t make any plans this week for Halloween, both as I was working a lot of overtime this week, and the Halloween event that I usually go to was sold out (I was on the fence about going anyway to do a bad experience that I had the last time I went) I decided to still do some Halloween make up because you know, I love Halloween, even if I have no plans. So I went to the shops today and picked up some supplies for Halloween make up with the intent of doing a witchy themed look. I was out at the shops today I found a facial temporary tattoo of a crescent moon, which I thought would really fit the aesthetic I was going for. So I did my make up look, including some Super dark lipstick, and the crescent tattoo. I took my photos, edited them, sat around for a bit sending Snapchat videos to friends of me doing funny things while wearing the make up, before starting the arduous process to remove all the make up. As I’m taking off my make up, two things happen- I get sent a text message from my dad reminding me that I have a funeral tomorrow of a family member, and I realise that the lipstick I put on with an 18 hour long lasting fine. I also realise that this Cresant moon tattoo is not coming off. So I’m going to be scrubbing at my face baby oil for the next 2 hours so I don’t end up going to this funeral with bits of dark lipstick on my face, glitter and a fucking crescent moon tattoo splashed across my forehead. It seems to be the world’s best temporary tattoo, as it’s not bloody coming off. TLDR- got way too invested in doing make up for next to no good reason, I have a funeral first thing tomorrow and I have a face of glitter lipstick and a fucking massive crescent moon tattoo that I can’t seem to get rid of
