Year: 2021
Author: heroiclord
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/MaliciousCompliance/comments/pkbj71/ill_have_the_gluten_free_bread_dont_worry_you/

I was reading a story here about having to change gloves, which caused me to remember this story of mine. As with most stories here, I’m on mobile, so please forgive the formatting. Back during my college days, I worked on the on-campus dining hall as a student worker. We got assigned to various positions there for that particular shift. I liked working at the Deli corner. I had fun talking to my co-worker and taking to the customers as I made their sandwiches. It was fun. At the deli corner, the dining hall actually had special gluten free breads and options for those that wanted a sandwich, but obviously couldn’t have the normal bread options. In this case, I would need to wash my my hands very thoroughly and change my gloves before proceeding with the order. This was to protect those that needed to have gluten free options. Everything was fine and dandy for a very long while. But then, a new health craze began to catch on quickly: gluten free was healthier! Instead of getting 3 people per shift asking for gluten free options, I would now get maybe 15-20 people per shift. The malicious compliance I couldn’t ask people about whether they needed gluten free or was doing it because they could. But, without fail, whenever someone mentioned that they wanted the gluten free option, I immediately went to wash my hands and take up precious time that they had for their meal (overall, about 1-2 extra minutes). The people stood there confused for the first couple of times this happened. And they didn’t like it. When they realized what was happening, they would make their order and then state they didn’t need me to change my gloves; I could just make their sandwich. Upon hearing this, I smiled and informed the person exactly why I needed to wash my hands and change my gloves, and then go through with it. I took up more of their precious time than before! Ultimately, no one ever yelled at me nor got me in trouble. After all, I was following protocol. They would just sigh and look down in defeat and continue with their order. I know this isn’t the most malicious compliance out there, but I did take great joy in following this protocol. EDIT: Just to clarify (and re-iterate what some people have already said in the comments below): The issue was that of cross contamination. Sure, the people who wanted the gluten free bread and “gave” me permission to not wash my hands and change my gloves were not considering those who couldn’t eat gluten at all in any amount. The gluten free stash of deli materials were meant to be separate and we could guarantee that no traces of gluten were there because of our diligence. My washing of my hands and changing of my gloves weren’t for the benefit of those who CHOSE the gluten free option; it was for the benefit of those who NEEDED gluten free options.
