Year: 2021
Author: Zoidaryan1985
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Dreams/comments/liog4c/dreamed_i_had_an_asshole_kangaroo_as_a_pet/

So in my dream, I had some random Australian guy knock on my door and tell me he was giving me his pet kangaroo. I didn’t even get to reply, he was just like “I don’t want this anymore. You’re taking it.” And I was just like, “okay.” So the next day, I find out just why this guy didn’t want this kangaroo. It would do this thing where it would just follow me from the outside of the house and glare at me through the window with its eyes squinted, and then when I went to the front door, it would wait for me to walk outside and then it would punt me off the front porch. So I decided I’ve had enough of this, so I went out and spent my entire savings on a huge Jurassic Park style electric fence and surveillance system. I tied the kangaroo to a tree and set everything up, then turned him loose. So the day after that, I got up and went out to my car to go to work, and the kangaroo followed me from the other side of my fence, and he kept spitting at me. But I was happy because I wasn’t getting kicked across the yard anymore. But then, the next morning, the alarms for my fence started going off. I jumped out of bed and went to my wall of security monitors, but the kangaroo was nowhere in the fence, but then I saw him in the far corner. He had escaped and was terrorizing the neighbors, kicking big dents in their vehicles. So I ran outside to try and stop it, and I had to break up this fist fight between this old man, his wife, and the kangaroo. I got punched by both the old man and the kangaroo, and then the old mans wife starts beating me with her shovel for no reason. I’m finally able to grab the kangaroo and put him back in the fence, where I noticed that somehow one of the fence posts had been pulled out of the ground, so I went to grab some cement and put it back in the ground. But as I was waiting for the cement to dry, the kangaroo jumps over the fence and goes back to the old mans yard where it starts trying to kick down his door. I tried to run after him, but then I heard the old man scream something and then I woke up. Tl;dr, just a random story about being forced to keep an asshole kangaroo as a pet.
