Year: 2021
Author: MeowieCatty
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/BPD/comments/rdjvvb/person_wo_bpd_looking_for_advice_with_a_friend/

I don't have BPD, but last time I came here you all gave me such amazing advice and multiple people reached out to make sure I was also ok and caring for myself. I figured I would come here for advice on my friend again and see if I am being too harsh with her. Last time it helped so much just to get things off my chest and have people who understood her perspective better than I can offer advice and support. I have a friend who recently sent me images of her arm cut up. It was deep enough she had to be brought to the hospital and would have bled out had she not gotten fast medical attention. After she got out she sent me more images of fresh self harm all up and down her arms and told me about how nobody cares about her and nobody cares to go see her so she resorts to hurting herself. How she knew she could die from a deep cut, but felt too hurt by the actions of her ex, friends, and family to do otherwise. That we all pushed her to that point. I haven't been able to see her in over a month. I live an hour away, we are in BC and there are still gas regulations and shortages, we both work full time and our schedules often conflict. I still have tried my best to text, check in on her, and be available for phone calls when I can. I have severe anxiety, and the next week was spent trying not to panic, making stupid mistakes at work, and not eating due to extreme nausea and guilt. She knows this is something that triggers my anxiety and I kept getting reminded of it. These past few days she has been doing better, and we have been talking openly and honestly about our mental health. I told her with my anxiety and already having a lot of family stress (one grandparent is slowly dying, this is likely her last Christmas, and there is a lot of family tension and drama. Things with this grandparent have been tough. I was her favourite grandchild, we were super close, then I started having my own thoughts and opinions and she wrote a 6 page essay about how evil I was and sent a mass email of it to the entire family when I was 13. My parents let me read it when I asked. I was then ghosted for a few years by said grandparent until she oneday decided things were fine between us again and they never really went back to fine.) I told her how I couldn't physically eat for a week and was left spiraling. I had a panic attack after work and my car the day she sent it and sat in the parking lot crying staring at the picturs of self harm. She told me she understands, but cannot stop splitting. It is a part of BPD and I need to be accepting and understanding of that and learn to support her when it happens. She is on meds and will have a new therapist in the next month, but even then she will relapse and struggle and that is ok, I just need to work on understanding better. I told her I understand, but she also needs to understand I have anxiety and depression, I am also sick, and I cannot always react the way I want to in a crisis. I am also trying to get help. I love her and care for her, but am still figuring out what triggers me and how to work thru those triggers while being in control of my reaction. She sent me BPD resources about how to be a better friend to someone with BPD, and I told her I understood, but I am not a healthy enough person to be sent those images at this point in time, and just as I need to understand and be gracious when splitting happens she needs to understand it will hurt other people and be understanding when they struggle. I am not asking for perfection, I am asking for a "I'm sorry you are struggling Meowie" Is that too much of an expectation? Am I being unreasonable and not understanding or compassionate like she says I am? I admit splitting is one of the BPD aspects I struggle with the most, and I have been reading thru a lot of posts here trying to better understand it and researching splitting online to have a better idea. My family and other friends are telling me to just block her, which I was tempted to do these last few weeks, but there is a wonderful and compassionate person that many people struggle to see with the BPD. I love spending time with her, she is funny, kind, and caring. She has so many brilliant characteristics that do not go away just because she also has BPD. But I am struggling with moving past this one. She has since told me I wasn't one of the friends who caused the brunt of it, but it still hurts. I don't know how to be supportive of her while carrying this pain myself and still being in a spot of struggling with my own mental health. I want to be a good friend and don't think I am doing that.
