Year: 2021
Author: mombutt
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/VIZIO_Official/comments/luwi35/replacement_sent_from_vizio_has_problems_and_the/

Last June(2020) I purchased a M658-G8 from Costco online, had the tv delivered, and installed my self. About 4 months in I noticed some strange horizontal banding that would scroll continuously until the tv was unplugged and plugged back in. When this happened the remote would work, nor would the power button on the back of the unit. It didn't happen a lot, maybe once or twice a month at first. It was sporadic enough I didn't care right away, but a few months in and it was getting worse. When I finally called for warranty service, it was turning it self off and on multiple times per day. Vizio had me upload photos, determined it had issues and decided to replace it rather than repair it, I honestly wouldn't have minded the repair since it was already hung on the wall, but what ever. They also don't stock the m658 anymore and told me they'd ship me the new model the M65Q8-H1, fine by me. The New Tv was shipped to a local delivery agent, who never once tried to contact me for delivery, sent the tv back to vizier. I contacted Vizio about my tv and they said I was un reachable for delivery and they'd reship one, and the few times a called they were quite rude and blamed it on me. So basically wasted one month waiting for a tv. New tv is finally delivered last weekend, after making a delivery appointment 3 weeks ago, the delivery agency changed it 3 times the week of delivery. The delivery agents were ridiculously unprofessional, one tried to enter my house with out masks, they commented that there was nothing wrong with my tv and it shouldn't be replaced(delivery people, not techs...). One of them told me he was going to take my old tv home and I made the comment that Vizio probably wants it back, he said don't worry about it they won't know. I have paper work from them they took my tv so I am covered. I ended up helping one of them take my tv off the wall since the other one had an important phone call, they brought in the new tv in the box and them told me I can hang it myself and left. Wether I could or couldn't wasn't up to them and they were supposed to hang it, whatever I got it done and probably did a better job than they would have. &#x200B; I didn't get a chance to really do much with the Tv for a few days after I received it. I used the recommend settings from Ratings . Later that night I noticed the lower 1/4 or 1/3 of the panel would be darker than the upper for a few seconds and then snap to the same brightness. As well I noticed that lighting that's quick and flashy light lights at a live concert mad white lines streak across the screen. I found that turning off both Active Array and Local Contrast have to be turned off to stop the issues. Is this a problem with my television or is this just the way those settings act? &#x200B; Thanks for any help here!
