Year: 2021
Author: aviatorbassist
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/aoe2/comments/qawimo/how_to_counter_this/

So I play byzantines exclusively for the time being. I have a build order that I like that I haven’t lost with yet. 7-8 game streak. ELO 700. As I get into higher ELO’s I imagine I will run into counters for this build order. What can I do to make this better? I start dark age pretty much normally, except the last thing I build before I go up is a barracks. Then I go up, I send two MaR towards the enemy base. While they are headed over there I upgrade them to long swordsman. I send them to attack a wood line or a mill. I drop a barracks and get one of the upgrades for infantry. I then go double range and build a few archers with my floating resources. This is usually enough to stop a counter attack. I usually try to amass 8-10 by the end of feudal. While I’m doing this I’m house walling one of my flanks and the front of my base. I leave my flank that has my ranges open. Usually by that time I am ready to go up, I grab fletching and the armor upgrade if I have the resources. once I go up I send my 8-10 archers to raid, while they are headed to the enemy base I build about 5-6 skirms and get my eco upgrades. I use the archers to raid the what I can raid without taking major losses or go after enemy military units if I have the advantage. I usually hit and run until I can get bodkin and crossbowmen. As soon as I hit castle I drop a TC usually on stone and wood but sometimes I’m lucky and can get wood gold and stone. I focus my second TC on wood and stone. I’m also making as many crossbows as I can afford. I then get a monastery and a uni. I start getting relics here. If the enemy is walled I will attack units over the wall, if the enemy is not walled I avoid TCs and castles and go after villagers. If the enemy has a Knights or skirms I find a hill and fight battles where I can get a hill bonus. Typically then I drop a castle forward if my archers have decent numbers if not I drop it closer to my base. I go up to IMP, byzantines get a much cheaper imp cost so i almost always reach imp first. While I’m going up I drop a third TC, I try to get around 120 villagers. As soon as I get imp I get arbalest. I’m constantly keeping my archer numbers replenished as they deplete but I try not to waste them. Once I get IMP I build 4-5 trebs and start build about 10-12 cataphracts to counter skirms. Then I push. Sometimes I win in castle with good archer play and a forward castle drop buti typically get the W in early imp.
