Year: 2021
Author: DampFrijoles
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/CFB/comments/kw1k2e/rcfb_reporting_tide_rolls_to_victory_over_ohio/

By Andrew Sagona MIAMI GARDENS, FLORIDA — “Change.” If 2020 and 2021 are to be described by one word, it would likely be “change.” Yet, for a few hours on a humid night in South Florida, one thing remained the same: utter dominance by the Alabama Crimson Tide. Behind Alabama’s (13–0) three-headed monster of senior RB Najee Harris, redshirt junior QB Mac Jones, and senior WR DeVonta Smith, the Crimson Tide simply outclassed Ohio State squad (7–1) en route to a 52–24 win in the 2021 College Football Playoff National Championship Game. Smith became the main attraction, demonstrating why he was this season’s Heisman trophy winner in a historic performance. He finished with 12 catches for 215 yards and three touchdowns, yet that does not go nearly far enough in conveying his dominance. His performance didn’t just change the record books, it practically rewrote it: * Most catches in a BCS _or_ CFP championship game; * Most receiving touchdowns in a CFP championship game (tied for most in a BCS championship); * Most receiving yards in a half of a CFP championship game. It was the cherry on top of an incredible season and college career, where he set SEC records for receiving yards in a season (1,856) receiving TDs in a season (23), and receiving yards in a career (3,965). If that was not impressive enough, he did all of it in one half. He left the game early in the third quarter due to a dislocated finger and was unable to return. According to head coach Nick Saban, the team doctors were unable to put the finger back in place. “If they'd have got it back in, he would have been fine. He actually wanted to play, we just didn't allow him to.” Head coach Nick Saban jokingly told Smith that “You're the only player that I know that missed a whole half because of your finger.” Harris and Jones also had incredible games. Harris racked up 158 all-purpose yards and three TDs. Coincidentally, he had equal rushing and receiving yards: 79 receiving yards on 7 catches with two TDs, and 79 rushing yards on 22 carries with one TD. The performance gave him the SEC record for TDs in a season (30) and a tie for most TDs in a career (57). Jones, the third-place finisher for the Heisman, rose to the occasion with one of the best games of his short career as a starter. He set personal bests in completions (36) and yards (464) and tied his record of touchdowns in a game (5). Like Smith, Jones also set a few BCS/CFP championship game records: pass yards and passing TDs (tie). It also secured his place in FBS history with the highest career completion percentage at 77.4%. On the other side of the field, change also greatly affected Ohio State with an underlying theme of injury and illness that severely hampered their play. Injuries and issues related to COVID-19 sidelined 13 players from the start, including key members of their offensive and defensive lines. Injury also impacted junior QB Justin Fields, the driving force behind most of the team’s offense. He was still dealing with lingering effects from an injury he suffered during the Sugar Bowl/CFP semifinal against Clemson. “He was not 100 percent tonight. He was working through [the injury] and made some really good throws, made some gutsy plays,” head coach Ryan Day said. Fields later said that the injury also affected his preparation for the game. “I wasn't able to practice towards the beginning of the week last week. I kind of struggled,” he said. The result was a fairly understated performance: 17 for 33 in the game for 194 yards and a touchdown. He also led the team in rushing yards with 67 yards on six carries, one of which was for a massive 33-yard gain. The Buckeyes’ personnel issues were compounded even further when starting running back Trey Sermon (graduate) suffered an undisclosed upper body injury on the first play of the game. The injury was serious enough that he was transported to a local hospital. Sermon’s mother Natoshia Mitchell spoke to the Columbus Dispatch to give an update on his condition and said “Trey is fine, his injury is not serious and he is headed back to Columbus.” However, losing him to injury was devastating to the Buckeyes. “To lose Trey on the first play of the game is one of those things, whenever you think what's going to happen in the game it's probably not going to happen that way, to lose Trey in the first play of the game,” Day said. Stepping up in his place was sophomore Master Teague III, who was the team’s starter earlier in the season before an injury took him off the field for a few games. Outside of Fields, he was the biggest contributor for Ohio State, getting two TDs off of 15 carries for 65 yards. The other main contributors were junior WR Chris Olave (8 catches for 69 yards) and sophomore WR Garrett Wilson (3 catches for 50 yards and one TD). Going back to the topic of change, a few things did change for Alabama. For one, this marked the complete reversal of Saban’s coaching style compared to his first national championship with the team in the 2009 season. “Our offense was really the key to the success of this team. We're an okay defensive team, not a great defensive team.” The statistics back that up. The 2009 team averaged 403 yards per game on offense (21st in the country) while giving up only 244.1 on defense (2nd). In 2020, the offense is now running at 541.8 yards per game (4th) and the defense is at 352.2 (32nd). Another “tiny” change: the leaderboard of head coaches and national championships. This was Nick Saban’s seventh national championship victory, putting him in sole possession of first place on the all-time leaderboard during the AP Poll era dating back to 1936. This broke a tie he had with Alabama legend Bear Bryant. When asked for his thoughts on the record, he responded in true Saban fashion: “I really haven't thought about that because you're always looking forward.” However, his quarterback had a bit more to say. “C'mon, man. Of course he is [the greatest football coach of all time],” he said. “He's the greatest to ever do it. He'll be the greatest for a long time.”
