Year: 2023
Author: Groffulon
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/RocketLeague/comments/137vdye/psyonix_please_im_begging_you_i_love_your_game/

TL:DR - The TP Boost is too loud and I literally can’t take it anymore. I love your game but if you don’t do something this will be my last games/season. I don’t ever bring this up nor do I want to but I have Autism and ADHD as I imagine a number of your players do. I have serious sensory issues with sound and I cannot deal with the TP Boost sound. I wear headphones when playing and I can’t cope with the sound it is distracting then it makes me angry and I get overwhelmed. It is too loud in game. I don’t understand why it is literally the loudest sound on the pitch. Even at low volume I can hear it being used at the other end of the arena. Please will you lower the volume of the TP boost or do something to make it less annoying/distressing. It is starting to be in every game and I can’t take it anymore. I just had a tournament match with 3 players using it in one game. It sounded so horrible and distressing to me. Why do you want this for your game? It is neither fun nor professional to make your players listen to toxic noise particularly those with sensory issues. I am only one person but honestly if you don’t do something this will be my last games/season. It is so bad I have to turn the sound off. When I do this I’m guaranteed to lose as I have vision problems and rely on sound to play the game. There are many annoying sounds and volume levels in the game but I have either made my peace with them or found workarounds. I have a long list. Just some examples: Joker boost is the next worst boost but no one uses it anymore and any other bad sounding boosts I can turn the volume down a bit but not TP Boost it is too loud. The goal explosions like Yee-haw, Nomster and Lightshow I can use the chat keyboard to mute them. Player Anthems and the arena announcers can be switched off but not TP Boost. Even chat can be turned off or down but not TP Boost. Please Psyonix I’ve tried my best to work around the lack of volume controls and the toxic sounds but this is it. Please do something.
