Year: 2023
Author: Dreadsin
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/childfree/comments/18fur6a/why_do_parents_always_act_so_entitled_with_their/

I feel like to parents, they have a kid, and obviously they have that feeling like "this is the best thing that ever happened to me", then they think everyone else feels that way about their kid. I don't. It is just a kid to me, and I don't even really like kids that much to begin with My brother had a kid and everyone in my family was like "oh I am so excited to see the kid". Of course I'm happy for my brother if this is what he wants, but I... honestly don't really care about his kid. I get it was probably one of the most important things to happen in his life, but from my perspective, this is just a child like any other. My brother said he's a bit disappointed that I'm not a bigger part of the kid's life. I'm not sure how to respond to this, I just don't really like kids that much and don't really have much of a desire to ever hang out with one The way my brother is raising his kid also makes the situation even worse. Obviously I'm not a parent, but he does some things where I have to wonder "are you sure that's the right thing to do?" For example, I have a small chihuahua and my family was meeting up for a holiday. My brother tells me to lock the dog in my room for the whole day. He explains that his kid got knocked over by a dog and now is scared of dogs. I'm pissed that he would even recommend that. I tell him, fuck no, dog is not being locked alone in the room all day. Maybe *his kid* needs to not have a world completely catered to him. What, if you're walking outside, do you say people should not be walking dogs? Besides, you're in my house. So my little 10lb chihuahua comes down the stairs and this kid SCREAMS bloody murder. The dog is terrified and runs to me shaking, so I'm holding her. My brother is clearly very mad. I'm also mad. I'm not gonna just make my dog miserable by making her sit alone all day. The dog doesn't even like kids either and actively avoids them. If your kid has a problem with dogs, when they dog is doing nothing confrontational, that's YOUR problem, not mine And I find this general entitled attitude with a lot of people with kids. My company had RTO mandate, and one person asked "can I bring my kid to work?". I check her title, she's higher level than me so could definitely afford childcare. The last thing I want is a kid running around the office, or a screaming baby. Someone makes the argument "if you can bring a dog in, why not a kid?", I argue it's much different, and say I definitely would rather have a dog in the office than a kid. If anything, I could see the argument for having neither in the office. Kids have the potential to be very loud and very annoying. I get a lot of really negative comments like "you're really gonna put a dog before a PERSON?", yes, yes I am. I do not care about YOUR kid. People were literally calling me gross I explain to them, I used to live in a fairly walkable area with a park. There were kids there that were absolute nightmares. These kids would run INTO THE ROAD where cars are, take tables at restaurants outdoors until they were kicked out, would be SCREAMING louder than I thought anyone could scream. I'm pretty sure they were caught stealing from places. They'd chase the wildlife like geese around. I remember one time, I was walking my dog, and a huge group of these kids just walk straight in front of me and stop, my dog is super uncomfortable, they come rushing at my dog so I pick her up and I'm just like "what the fuck is wrong with these kids?" I'm not really sure what even to do. Where tf are these kids parents? Come to find out, the parents just kind of... let them out. Unsupervised. I remember one time I see the parents all out in the park and their kids just running around, screaming, swinging sticks at geese and tormenting people's dogs and the parents just look at them like 😊 I don't understand this massive sense of entitlement they have, where their kids can do no wrong
