Year: 2023
Author: Groffulon
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/RocketLeague/comments/16xqo6e/rocket_league_is_nearly_dead_bros_which_is/

TL;dr - Epic will sell off the game if it stops making profit. I say let’s help them out and tank the game with a boycott. Get it sold to a smaller dev again! Make Rocket League great again! This is killing Rocket League! There’s no conspiracy. I am not a wack job. It’s all just business as usual at Epic… Permanent growth or else bros… They’re coming bros… Every financial hole must be plugged… Nothing can stay that costs more than it earns… The’ve taken out Psyonix… They’re going to take out RLCS… They’re going to take out Bakkas mod… They’re going to take out 2nd seller sites… They’re going to take out private trading… They’re going to take out in-game trading… They’re going to limit drops to more than less than nothing… They’re going to cancel Blueprints… They’re going to take your inventories… They’re going to sell the ALPHA PACK… They’re going to take your game… You might think I’m crazy (behold the 300k daily overwatch simps for reference) but do you have any idea how hard it is to achieve PERMANENT GROWTH!!! If we don’t make enough money to keep the doors open that’s it. Game over. Everything you paid for and hold dear is no longer yours. Everything that can be sold will be. Psyonix was just the veneer. It all belongs to the shareholders now. A manager and their team will get promoted for completing the above list while maintaining profits… Believe me they’re going to try… The fate for those that appeared to care… RIP Devin & Sofia and all the other fallen that at least tried to care for us. This “game” is just a dying corpse of dead promises. Epic have released whole driving games in the time they even talked about UE5 Rocket. If you’re happy being less than a wallet while watching this game get torn apart for shareholders percent points then carry on bro. For me I still have some love for this game which is why I can’t watch. I honestly believe the only hope for this game is if we all agree to boycott and tank the numbers and the game is bought out by developers, orgs or content creators who actually care about the game. Otherwise there is no future in Rocket League in its current form and earnings. Profits must increase quarter on quarter. The milking has only just begun…
