Year: 2023
Author: MeowieCatty
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/birthcontrol/comments/14nkeia/mirena_story/

So before I got my Mirena, my friend sent me a tonne of horror stories. I needed the Mirena for endo treatment. I a bloated and in pain 3 weeks of the month. It is normal for me to puke due to pain at work or at home and then carry on life because it doesn't stop just because I'm hurt and I am too stubborn to let life pass me by due to pain. I have other bad symptoms every day. That being said, I had a bad flare up, lost a significant amount of weight putting me in the underweight category from a healthy body size, and the doctors agreed the Mirena is my best chance at a pain-free life, especially since I already live most of the potential side effects on a near daily basis. I was terrified and she kept telling me I should treat it naturally and avoid the nightmare that is an IUD. Day of I brought a different friend. She drove me there, and sat in the room with me while I got the IUD. I did years of theatre company with no change rooms. I have no shame about vaginas being out in public. So I was 100% fine with that fun part of it. The nurse was incredibly sweet. She chatted with me for 15 minutes to get to know me as a person before sticking her fingers up my vagina which was nice. She did her starting exam, measured me up, and got herself set up. I took two extra strength advil and a Tylenol an hour before hand. She had an internal numbing spray she brought and offered to use it on my cervix, which I gladly accepted. If you've ever used those mint face washes or masks with the whole "if it's tingling it's working" gimmick that's what it felt like. It is a very cold minty feeling that isn't painful or uncomfortable, but definitely weird. After that she checked to make sure I was numb and did the uterus positioning and insertion. Positioning the uterus was weird. I barely felt her putting the clamp thing on my cervix. I got a very minor dull cramp but it was nothing compared to endo cramps. I would be happy if I had to deal with that every day. It was nothing. After that pulling the cervix and uterus into position was weird. I could feel a tugging and pulling sensation internally, and had a couple of slightly worse but still dull cramps, again still fine. 100% could go thru daily life with that level of cramping and they would subside after 30 seconds or so. Then she inserted the iud itself, which caused a very sharp cramp that lasted maybe 5 seconds in total before I couldn't even feel it. I felt a little dizzy after, probably adrenaline and anxiety crash, but she had a juice box and snacks for me. So I leaned back and had my juice box. Even the sharpest cramp was absolutely nothing compared to the worst of endo symptoms. It was very easy to get thru and relatively pain free. They even gave me pads in case of spotting or an early period. I told them I use a cup, and they said I wouldn't be able to use one for 7 days and made sure I was prepped enough to go home, get some rest, and find pads in a day or two. For about an hour after I was 100% fine. My friend worked from home on my couch to make sure I was ok. Eventually I did get bad cramps, I would be fine when still, but moving wrong would trigger about a 7/10 pain cramp. I could still do things, and it wasn't nauseating pain, but had to take a pause and steady myself when they hit. I curled up on the couch with a pillow. By hour 4 those had mostly stopped and I'd get dull aches while moving. I was able to go thrift shopping and grab Starbucks with my friend. Night time was fun. My cramps decided to come back with a vengance (to be fair I have 7 days until my period, and this is typically when I get my most nauseating painful cramps regularly, so may not be IUDs fault) I curled up with my sherpa lined heated blanket on my stomach, then wrapped my weighted blanket around my waist. I lay in bed trying to get comfy. I was so happy to finally get some relief, my heated blanket cycled back on and was warm and soothing, I was ready to fall asleep, and my alarm went off. I think I swore at it before getting up for my opening shift at work. I am on my feet all day at work and regularly lift 20kg boxes at work, which did not help my cramps or nausea much. I had advil, and my manager is a sweetheart who let me buy mint from the produce department and make myself mint tea as I was too stubborn to be sent home. By the time I took my second round of advil, finished my tea, and grabbed a Timmies ice capp with espresso I was doing much better. Still dizzy and dead tired from a grand total of 0 minutes of sleep, but other than that ok. Drove home, had a hot shower, and had an hour nap with my heated blanket. Woke up feeling nauseous, but had another cup of mint tea and feeling pretty good now. In general I would not call my experience so far a horror story by any means. I can see how if someone doesn't experience cramps it would throw them thru a loop, but I didn't find the whole experience bad at all. Hopefully this helps someone feeling a bit scared and puts their minds at ease. I cannot promise anyone will feel as little discomfort as I did, but it was honestly fine. Maybe I got lucky, or maybe I just have a high pain tolerance. Either way was not anywhere near what I mentally prepared for.
