Year: 2023
Author: roonilwazlib96
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/pettyrevenge/comments/104l065/mum_tried_to_ban_giving_me_earrings_sister_wasnt/

This is technically my sister’s petty revenge, but she doesn’t have reddit and wanted me to share it. So I (20s; F) got my ears pierced at 14, and it was under the strict rules set by my mother that it was the only piercing she would allow me to get. She HATES any other kind of piercing; she strongly believes that any piercings beyond just single lobes are disgusting and a sign of trailer trash. I spent the day travelling to visit a friend about 2 years ago (she lives 3 hours away) and as we were walking around the shops, we passed a piercing shop and I mentioned how I always wanted seconds on my lobes. She encouraged me to do it because hey- I’m an adult, my body my choice. So I walked out 40minutes later with my doubles pierced and feeling hot to trot. Well it took about 6 months for my mother to notice (I didn’t live with her) and she was not happy. Kept mentioning how I look like trailer trash and announced to my family that as punishment, she will never buy me a pair of earrings again in my life, and any earrings she had set aside for me for presents she will be returning or giving away, and encouraged the family not to buy earrings for me. My sister wasn’t exactly on board with this plan, so every birthday/Christmas/event that requires gifts, she always gets me a giant bundle of earrings, ranging from high quality to cheap but cute, all the way to aggressively large and in your face. And my poor mother is forced to sit there and watch as I pull out pairs and pairs of earrings and try each on as my sister sits cackling in the corner. I love earrings, so I love the gifts almost as much as my sister and I love watching my mother’s expression. Christmas just passed, and with it came more earrings! TL;DR - My mother announced she will no longer buy me earrings because I got a second piercing, sister exacted petty revenge by always buying me aggressive amounts of earrings.
