Year: 2023
Author: bowlbettertalk
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/opera/comments/17u2of7/review_barber_of_seville_opera_san_jose_ca_111223/

The Venue: In case it hasn't already been mentioned, there is an organist who starts playing old-timey music in the lobby of the California Theatre about half an hour before the performance starts. They also have one of those pictures with the face cut out where you can take a silly selfie; in honor of today's opera, it's meant to look as if Figaro is giving you a haircut. Both are delightful. The Audience: Someone a row down from me was on their phone constantly and the ushers didn't do squat about it. There were also several instances of people talking to their neighbors and at least one phone going off at a crucial moment. Other than that, pretty well-behaved and generally enthusiastic about the performance. The Work: There's a reason this is Rossini's most frequently performed work. It's fast, it's funny, every number is an absolute banger, and it has a happy ending. I grant you that they did cut Almaviva's aria in the second half, but otherwise it seemed more or less intact. The Production: More or less traditional, with numerous instances of funny stage business that added to the text rather than detracting from it, which is really my baseline. The set had moving walls which were used to great comic effect during the Act I finale, when they appeared to be closing in on the singers in a way that indicated mounting panic. The Cast: Nikola Printz (Rosina) is the real deal. I was first introduced to their artistry when they were a Merolini and sang an aria from Dr. Atomic, so this was a bit of a paradigm shift, but BOY did they deliver. Coloratura that sounded easy, killer chest voice as well as awesome high notes. Add to that hilarious comic acting and a charismatic stage presence and you have the star of the show in my book. I also liked Joshua Sanders as Almaviva, who used his flexible tenor to both lyrical and comic effect, although I was disappointed they cut his aria in the final act (although he may have been relieved - it's a killer). Ricardo Jose Rivera (Figaro) proved that his role requires as much vocal agility as it does comic timing, both of which he delivered in spades. Dale Travis (Bartolo) proved he can patter with the best of them on his big aria, and played a pitch-perfect villain; I don't think he got the "boo the villain" treatment, but I could have just not heard. Vartan Gabrielian used his voice to somewhat spooky effect as Basilio, and was hilarious during the other characters' constant attempts to bribe him, which always worked. The smaller roles were also well-cast, with Joshua Hughes as a hilariously put-upon Fiorillo and Courtney Miller grumpily drinking Bartolo's wine during Berta's aria. What little I heard of Michael Kuo as the Officer was also good. Chorus sounded good as always, and the conductor and orchestra were mostly in synch with the singers and didn't drown them out. tl;dr A good time was had by all, I went home humming the finale, and someone please cast Nikola Printz in more major roles. Thank you.
