Year: 2023
Author: Mewlover23
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/offmychest/comments/13qw865/i_just_honestly_wanted_to_be_with_family_and_2/

I've been trying to ask my 2 "best friends" if we could just hang out and go to an amusement park. Somewhere wanting a distraction from picking up my other dogs ashes, a siblings death anniversary on my birthday and just general other mental health issues ive been dealing with since around december. Asked in early April. Only got claims of maybe and that they'd try to take off. Any following questions about it have been I guess just ignored or overlooked for other topics when we rarely talk. One of my older sisters suggested that she and her 2 kids come. I grew up with the 2 kids and haven't seen 1 in 2 years. Which I'm happy to see them and that they at least want to come and be around me. My mother promised that she'd request off and that she'd come with us to the amusement park. She requested off. The store director (who has been honestly a jerk via refusing to give her any days off she requests and claims she lost it or was never given one and changing the time off approvals that the assistant director did) gave her off for every single day except my birthday. I don't really have much with my mother because of abuse and other things, but I just wanted things to be like how they used to be for at least one day. She's now saying that she's going to have to work and won't call out and hardly tried to change the schedule. Didn't confront the store director. Nothing. Asked a few people if they'd switch and nothing. It just makes me feel so angry, disappointed, upset/sad, lonely, etc. The friends that have said they've wanted to hang out for a while just ignore my texts about wanting to hang out and do something well over a month before it even happens. More than enough time to see about it. That they can't even tell me that they couldn't get off or just no hurts. That at least one of them can hang out with other friends of her own almost on a constant basis but seemingly doesn't even want to see me or talk much to me after we haven't been able to really hang out since maybe 2018 or 2019 due to life issues. That the other one who I have known since we were 7 (26 now) couldn't even answer except one maybe answer back then and say nothing else at all. The fact that my mother had always put my abusive step father before me and is now refusing to do anything about how her boss tries to refuse her requests off when I come down once a month makes me mad. As much as our relationship is I don't know what, she's the only parent I have. I don't have my dad. All I wanted to do was spend time with my 2 friends and my family and the majority of them don't care. It just feels utterly lonely and that there's something wrong with me.
