Author: A. Kasprzak
Title: Angiogenesis-Related Functions of Wnt Signaling in Colorectal Carcinogenesis
Paper ID: 3664828820959388e020e3e4f19e01bd55c4be02
Year: 2020
Author Index: 15

Abstract:
Simple Summary Angiogenesis belongs to the most clinical characteristics of colorectal cancer (CRC) and is strongly linked to the activation of Wnt/β-catenin signaling. The most prominent factors stimulating constitutive activation of this pathway, and in consequence angiogenesis, are genetic alterations (mainly mutations) concerning APC and the β-catenin encoding gene (CTNNB1), detected in a large majority of CRC patients. Wnt/β-catenin signaling is involved in the basic types of vascularization (sprouting and nonsprouting angiogenesis), vasculogenic mimicry as well as the formation of mosaic vessels. The number of known Wnt/β-catenin signaling components and other pathways interacting with Wnt signaling, regulating angiogenesis, and enabling CRC progression continuously increases. This review summarizes the current knowledge about the role of the Wnt/Fzd/β-catenin signaling pathway in the process of CRC angiogenesis, aiming to improve the understanding of the mechanisms of metastasis as well as improvements in the management of this cancer. Abstract Aberrant activation of the Wnt/Fzd/β-catenin signaling pathway is one of the major molecular mechanisms of colorectal cancer (CRC) development and progression. On the other hand, one of the most common clinical CRC characteristics include high levels of angiogenesis, which is a key event in cancer cell dissemination and distant metastasis. The canonical Wnt/β-catenin downstream signaling regulates the most important pro-angiogenic molecules including vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) family members, matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs), and chemokines. Furthermore, mutations of the β-catenin gene associated with nuclear localization of the protein have been mainly detected in microsatellite unstable CRC. Elevated nuclear β-catenin increases the expression of many genes involved in tumor angiogenesis. Factors regulating angiogenesis with the participation of Wnt/β-catenin signaling include different groups of biologically active molecules including Wnt pathway components (e.g., Wnt2, DKK, BCL9 proteins), and non-Wnt pathway factors (e.g., chemoattractant cytokines, enzymatic proteins, and bioactive compounds of plants). Several lines of evidence argue for the use of angiogenesis inhibition in the treatment of CRC. In the context of this paper, components of the Wnt pathway are among the most promising targets for CRC therapy. This review summarizes the current knowledge about the role of the Wnt/Fzd/β-catenin signaling pathway in the process of CRC angiogenesis, aiming to improve the understanding of the mechanisms of metastasis as well as improvements in the management of this cancer.