Year: 2021
Author: YourCreepyGramps
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/6thForm/comments/pl1hmb/i_started_last_week_and_ive_really_really/

Title says all really. I'm an external student who, for specific reasons, didn't end up going to my towns sixth form college because it's very bad. So I had to choose a sixth form in another neighbouring town to go to. This will be useful to know. So I'm brand new, and at the time, I didn't have a clue as to where I'm going, because my sixth form didn't give any tours to new students. So I had to walk around the school like a lost little lamb trying to find my lessons in a massive school that I hadn't even seen before (because of Covid and therefore a lack of open evenings.) This made me extremely anxious and uncomfortable for obvious reasons. Thankfully, most of the staff there seem exceptionally nice and pointed me and a few others in the right direction. The friendship groups at the school seem very cliquey. So because of that, I've found it extremely difficult to make friends this week because of this. My chemistry class are pretty sound to me in the classroom however afterwards they go back to their own friends and haven't approached me whilst I've been by myself in the common room. I can't expect them to do that obviously, but it's just been difficult for me, and if one person had come up to me and spoken to me outside of class, I wouldn't be feeling so shit right now. History is another story, there's a seating plan and I'm sat next to 2 girls who judged me off the spot and didn't speak a word to me. It also probably didn't help that it was 30°C that day and I had been sweating my balls off because I have to wear a suit, although I showered that morning, used a shit ton of deodorant beforehand and used aftershave to best counter any stink that might have happened because it was so hot and stuffy. But, again, nobody spoke to me in that class and I, again, felt lonely. My other lesson, politics, is at a different school (my school co-operate with the other local schools and host different lessons) and so any friends I make there would be pointless because I wouldn't see them that oftenly. And again, nobody spoke to me in that lesson, so there's that. I've tried to speak to others but to no avail. I've sparked a few conversations, but when I tell them I'm an external student from town X, they look at me in horror and see me as an outcast, because my town is incredibly rough and this school is in quite an upper class area. A few other students from my old high school have also gone to this school. They're experiencing the same things as I have done, but they were all friends previously and so they have each other. Because I had a different friendship group in high school (and none of my friends went to this school) I'm literally all by myself, and its just taking a toll on me. The teachers are incredibly nice though, and whenever I've had trouble with work, they've so far been really good about it and have helped me with whatever I need. But I just feel like crap at the moment. I know it's only the first week, but if it continues in this vein then I can only see my mental health getting worse and worse, because I don't see what I've done wrong to deserve outcast status. I've tried and tried and failed each time. I'm just lost. Thank you for making it this far. I'm sorry that this post is a mess, I'm just not in a good place mentally at the moment. I just thought I'd share my experience and I'm hoping that someone has also been through this and understands.
