Year: 2021
Author: YourCreepyGramps
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/tifu/comments/nhux54/tifu_by_not_getting_to_see_a_celebrity_because_i/

Of course, this story didn't happen today sadly. But it did happen, back in 2019. So, without giving too much detail away, back in 2019 I had to have an operation on my knee to fix a few things that I have wrong with my legs. It was a relatively minor surgery compared to the other people in the hospital, so thankfully, I was able to be released the day after. May I add that I am British and that this happened in the UK, so healthcare is pretty much free for everyone, no matter what class, race or status you are/have. This will come in later. Anyways, the morning after my operation, I was being prepared to get discharged, and as any other person would, wanted to get out of there as soon as possible because I wanted to recover at home in an environment I was comfortable it. I had trained to walk on crutches, been fed, and given physio exercises to help me get going. So, I asked my dad to hurry with getting me out of the hospital and to be as quick as possible, which he did. This is where I fucked up. My speed and my willingness to be quick was my major downfall. I had been ushered into the car and made comfortable. My dad went to get some of the things I took with me from the lovely nurses that gave me the best care. I was waiting in the car, and noticed that it had been an unusual amount of time since I last saw my dad. A few minutes, he comes back later and tells me: 'Youll never believe whos just come out of the hospital.' 'Who?' 'Warwick Davis and his wife.' Yes, the actor of Wicket the Ewok, Professor Flitwick and most recently R2-D2, had just exited the hospital with his wife, who had also just had an operation like myself. My dad had coincidentally seen him as he was getting my things, and went up to him to ask him if he needed any help with anything (i.e. luggage or anything that could be put in the boot.) He said no but thanked my dad for offering to help him. My dad didn't ask for a photograph or a signature, because as I've mentioned before, his wife had also just been discharged so my dad wanted them to have that rare privacy and didn't want to bother them further. If I had waited 2 minutes longer, I could have seen him walk by. I wouldn't have harassed him for a photograph or an autograph though, because that would be trashy. On the plus side, I still got a cool story out of it, which is the one I'm telling you now! TLDR: Had surgery, wanted to get out of hospital as soon as possible. If I waited longer and wasn't so rushy, I would have seen a celebrity (but not approached them because they needed some privacy)
