Year: 2021
Author: shannister
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/AskAstrophotography/comments/kuosa3/trying_to_find_a_well_balanced_telescope_for/

After 20 years of using a small ETX telescope for planetary observation, I'm going to switch to something that would really last me the next 20 years. Ideally, I'd want something that is equally good for viewing with my friends and family and for astrophotography for when I'm on my own (with a particular keenness to get into deep sky photography in the future). I've been exploring a few options, been to a few stores and read this subbreddit. Instinctively (and because they were always the telescopes I dreamed of), I was leaning towards a 10" to 12" Schimdt Cassegrain. I understand that using those for DSO can be complicated and far from ideal, so I'm wondering two things: are there ways to make them work, and if not, what other type of telescope could match their ability? 1/ Trying to make the SC work: - one recommendation I got was for Celestron 11" (Deluxe 1100 HD 11" f/10 model). However this model sounds like it lands right in the middle of the "not gonna cut it for DSO photography"? Or are there ways to set up autoguiding for those kind out mounts? - one option I'd been considering was Meade's LX600 series (probably a 10") with Startracker which, based on what I've read makes a leap for SC, but is that really the case? I'm ok to pay the extra price, but if it's not that much better I might as well go for the cheaper Celestron. 2/ Go for something else: I've seen some of the telescopes recommended for DSO photography, but generally (and I might be entirely wrong here) they don't sound as "wow" for simply viewing. Are there options that might be excellent at photography and very good at viewing? (note: and that can be transported in a car). Would very much welcome some advice here - I'm sure some will probably start with "you really don't know what you're talking about!", which would be fair enough ;). PS: my budget is in the $5k to $10k, which I am sure is going to be pretty overkill to some considering my intermediate level, but I'm really buying for the next 10 to 20 years and this is my shot at buying something for the long term.
