Year: 2021
Author: Inferno221
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bleach/comments/pa2byq/one_big_flaw_that_i_think_is_overlookde_with/

I see a lot of hate for bleach, for some right reasons, but one thing that I think is rather overlooked by some people is the main point the last chapter presents. Which I find to be a rather large amount of people that seem to miss it. I can't blame them, but it's still a big flaw. To explain why, let's go look at the last chapter for a few other series: Naruto: - The last couple of panels feature naruto, now a fully recognized hokage, entering a council chamber as we see a peaceful village with a sleeping ninetails. Naruto didn't want to become hokage to make fair tax policies. Dude wanted to be accepted by people and push for a peaceful future, and he leaves a good legacy with his son. It doesn't have the last panel with him living on a farm with hinata in an open field. It doesn't end with a marriage scene, no, the point is legacy, and him being accepted as a leader. This is the last volume cover for naruto Full Metal Alchemist: - The last panel is a collection of pictures from different characters to show how each person moved forward. The main point, especially with Ed, is they sacrificed the ability to use alchemy to live an ordinary life This is the last volume for Full Metal Alchemist Now onto Bleach: - The last couple of panels is ichigo and rukia arguing about their kids, and their kids meeting the first time the same way they first met in the bedroom This is the last volume for Bleach Now, we all know Bleach was rushed due to Kubo's health. So he had to cut out a lot of stuff, and condense a lot of things in a few chapters. Of the things he could have focused, but didn't: - The fate of the soul king and the world - A wedding with ichigo/orihime to celebrate their relationship - The fate of other characters left in battle (urahara, yoruchi, grimmjow, etc) Instead, kubo decides to give us the focus on ichigo and rukia. As to say "this is what bleach is about, these two". Now, I shouldn't have to say this, but I will anyway, the point of a good ending is to tie back to the main point the story and give focus on what it's about and how it changed from the beginning. With naruto, I can see how he fought in the last arc to get the hokage status he deserves. With full metal alchemist, I can see how ed was consistent in refusing to use people's souls for his own will, and giving up his powers is a sacrifice he was happy with. With bleach, I can't really be sure what kubo is saying with ichigo and rukia's relationship without it being that much different from the middle of the series. Additionally, having them be paired with people in the very same chapter detracts from whatever message he's trying to give with their relationship. Not only is there less time to reflect on ichigo and rukia's relationship, but you are pretty much distracted from it by having them be with other people to get to know their new relationships they suddenly formed. Except Kubo doesn't even want to go into detail over those marriages either, because he timeskipped over them. But more importantly, the fact that kubo chose to end bleach with these two instead of numerous plot points he dropped in the last arc shows how much was missing from these two. They only interacted once in the last arc. No fight together, no significant plot involvement, nothing. But kubo thinks that bleach is about these two anyway. Personally I'm hoping the anime has kubo fill in the story to actually make it complete, but as it stands now, it's really messy. I know he's making a new arc, I doubt it will be more than one volume's length, but as it stands, the last chapter is how he visioned ending bleach, and even in the new one-shot, you can still see how there's some focus on ichigo and rukia/their kids.
