Year: 2021
Author: cametumbling
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/aspergirls/comments/ndwrh2/need_help_and_dont_know_where_to_start/

Hi, I had to leave what I consider my home (UK) at the start of the pandemic, and return to the US, where my few remaining friends are still distant and all have lives of their own. I'm 40 and was diagnosed on my 39th birthday. I was only in the UK for a few years, but after many years of loneliness and depression in the US, there I found friends and some happiness. I am teaching myself software engineering so I can get a visa and a job and go back. At present, I am living alone in the woods, and I am not doing okay. I have stopped contacting people entirely. I thought it was to focus on building my app, but I now think I am actually very depressed and gutwrenchingly lonely. It is heartbreaking for me to go on soical media and see places reopening and me still being stuck here. But it's not only that, I am terrified of moving to a new city (before I was at university doing an advanced degree), and mostly I am terrified that all of my friends will have moved on, or that they were never really my friends to begin with, or that they will realize I am so much older...basicaly the typical aspie stuff of not getting friendship and it being super hard, as well as feeling over the hill as a woman. I'm completely isolated and lonely here, but the thought of having potential friends and hanging out and then not having that come to fruition if I move and am still lonely is too crushing to contemplate. When I was there, at first I had a girlfriend and it was like I got to be a different person for the first time in my life: for some reason it gave me the foundation to be outgoing and relaxed and happy and fun and active. She turned out to be abusive, it was horrific and has had lasting effect, but i miss who i got to be during that time. I dont know why i cant give myself that gift, I hate that I cant. I was in therapy after the breakup, but to no real postive outcome. So, I know I need help, but I havent gotten help since I knew I was an aspie, and I dont know where to start or where to look. I was hoping maybe you had been through this, and knew that 'X' was the ticket--ie help with specific social skills or confroting fomo or ageism or fears or...something else. Thank you!
