Year: 2021
Author: FrankieB86
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/ARK/comments/lw6d8f/victoria_walker_is_a_totally_unnecessary_addition/

For those who are unaware, a new character is being added to the Ark story via the animated series by the name of Victoria Walker. Her role? A humanitarian aid worker and the wife of Helena. The thing that genuinely worries me is this character was included for no reason other than to pander while requiring a rewrite of an existing character (Helena) to make it fit the story. Also, Ark's plot is large enough as it is, and considering that the animated series is not likely going to be a long running franchise, anything that takes time away from the core story runs the risk of ruining the story, or at least the flow of the story. The more time that is spent developing Victoria and Helena is time taken away from Helena, Mei Yin, Rockwell, Santiago, and the other survivors of which there are already plenty. In addition to that, the events of the story basically starts with Helena figuring things out, helping the tribes resolve their issues, discovering the purpose of the Arks and the history of Earth, and finally culminating in a final battle to save Earth. The inclusion of Victoria and her relationship with Helena does nothing but slow down the pacing of an already convoluted story. While Helena's personal life was never outlined in clear detail, none of her explorer notes ever made mention of having a wife. Meanwhile, said notes went into depth with regards to her relationship between the other survivors. This means that for all intents and purposes, Victoria walker does not exist and wasn't even remotely required when building Ark's lore. In addition to all of that, the most ironic thing is that there's already a lesbian couple in Ark - Mei Yin and Diana. The inclusion of Victoria in nothing short of redundant, and gives me the impression that it's not expected for ark Ark to run long enough to introduce Diana (who honestly is a far more interesting character than a humanitarian aid worker).
