Year: 2021
Author: Brought2UByAdderall
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Wallstreetbetsnew/comments/lhl7yb/rivian_ipo_this_year_does_anybody_want_to_buy_my/

I've been following this EV company for a couple years now and have a pre-order for the R1T. People call them the next Tesla but they're really not. They've found their own niche with the adventure/off-road/outdoorsy market and they're doing stuff with their trucks Tesla hasn't tried yet. Their CEO, RJ Scaringe is a genius. He's a subject domain expert in automotive and automotive manufacturing and is always thinking like 400 steps ahead. This is NOT a dude who will ever be sleeping at his factory or building trucks in tents. But his real superpower is bringing talented people on board. Post-college (MIT) the guy's never worked for anybody but himself. Rivian started as a company of him. The company's actually been around for a decade, originally working on hybrid sportier cars with some impressive-sounding range but they ultimately pivoted to trucks and then 100% battery EVs. They came out of stealth mode in November 2018, debuting pickup and SUV prototypes that were near-production-quality prototypes, with range and performance specs for mid-size SUVs and a pickup truck that were comparable to Tesla's model S. We're talking mid-size pickups just a smidge smaller than an F150 that get up to 400+ miles of range and a 0 to 60 around 3 seconds. And the interiors didn't suck. The automotive journalist response was extremely positive. At the time of their unveil they had already acquired a recently abandoned Mitsubishi factory that was practically gifted to them by Normal Illinois. They said they were looking for 3 billion in private investment to get started. To date, they got like 8. The majority through firms like Blackwell but they've also picked up some money and more importantly strategic partnerships with the likes of Cox Automotive, Ford, and Amazon. Yes, these are the guys who were tasked with designing the new Amazon van EVs. Amazon has ordered 100,000 of them. They're already talking about international expansion and have said they hope to make preorders available in Europe and Asia by 2022. Their first model, the R1T launches in June, followed by the R1S in August, followed by Amazon van production starting EOY. Understand that. Aside from a few prototypes Amazon is actually shipping packages with right now, they haven't shipped a truck to a customer yet. They'll be launching three models into full production within a few months of each other in their first year of production. Their original target date was late 2020. They've had just the one delay due to Covid and it looks like they were on track to hit their launch for the pickup at least, prior to the pandemic hitting. The trucks themselves are extremely capable both on and off-road, not just for the range/acceleration stats. They had a bunch of Mclaren engineers working on them. Of particular note is the motor-per-wheel configuration and the kinetic suspensions, which is a hydraulic/air hybrid more typically found on cars like perhaps not-surprisingly, Mclarens. They're leveraging motor-per-wheel in a big way for unprecedented levels of traction/slippage control. Rivian's nads are so massive, they lent their very first pre-production truck to roll off a production line to automotive journalist Emme Hall to compete in the Rebelle Rally and then let her write a review about the experience. She didn't hate it: Very early prototypes were also seen crossing the entire freaking continent of South America in documentary, A Long Way Up. Apparently there was also some Star Wars movie guy and some EV bikes or something. They're already working on 3 new models on a smaller R2 skateboard. The first is a performance-focused lifted rally car. The next 2 are likely to be their model 3/Y equivalents intended both for larger scale production and their entry into Europe. One is confirmed to be an SUV. A smaller more Tacoma-ish sized pickup seems like a no-brainer for the last. They are also apparently working with Ford on an EV version of one of their models (not the cancelled Lincoln project and not the F150). It's no surprise private investors have been throwing crates of cash at them. They are un-freaking-stoppable. TLDR: * Upcoming IPO for this really great new EV company that's focused on the adventure/outdoors/off-road market - so trucks - they're launching the first modern-era EV pickup in the US market * They needed 3 billion to get started. Private investors to date decided to give them 8 * First trucks ship in June * CEO is basically the golden child of EV startup CEOs * Partnerships with Cox, Ford, and most importantly Amazon * They have a 100,000 Amazon van preorder * The trucks are pure sex unless you're one of those freaks who hates the headlights, in which case they're pure sex from the sides and back - also fantastic on/off-road performance * The interiors are not only not ass for 67k-100k cars, they're actually quite appealing * \-0----0- Yes, that's a kitchen
