Year: 2021
Author: davidlovescats
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/cscareerquestions/comments/nlb5j2/cs_degree_no_internships_looking_for_a_job_and_am/

I graduated last December with a BS in computer science and a minor in math, with a 3.34 gpa. I never had an internship during college, and I’m looking for my first job in the software development industry. I’m in the application process for App Academy for a 4 month long intensive bootcamp online, which covers Ruby, Ruby on Rails, HTML, CSS, SQL, and a lot of other things to prepare me to be a full stack web developer. The reason I’m considering App Academy is because I seriously dread the job search and application process, and I hate long wait times and rejections to be honest. So by doing an intensive bootcamp, I’m making myself the most qualified I have ever been. I’ll have more skills in my resume under skills I’m “proficient” in and more skills in general. I’ll have new projects which could hopefully be better than my previous projects, and on top of that, they offer career services like 1:1 career coaching, mock interviews, and resume reviews and stuff. I’ll have group project experience, which I feel also helps make up for not having an internship. So I think it will take me less applications to get my job after a bootcamp, and I can hopefully shorten the job search process and minimize rejections. That’s why I’m considering it. I really just want to “get my foot in the door” but without a painful process. I kinda enjoy learning new computer science stuff anyways. I’ll look forward to learning (in depth, not just basics) Ruby, JavaScript, HTML and CSS, and SQL. The rest, hopefully I enjoy and I think I probably will. At this point, 4 months are gonna pass by quick anyways, so I’d rather be more qualified in 4 months than possibly be still unemployed or lost. And the thing I fear most is a large amount of time passing by, like 4 months, and me regretting not joining App Academy from the start (especially because this is the last online cohort before they switch back to San Francisco and New York cohorts.) So I’d rather just get this over with, study for 4 months (I guess it will just be like one more university semester), and put myself in the best position to get hired. One thing is their job placement rate though. This is one thing that made me uneasy about the program, because though they say they have around a 93% placement rate, my counselor said 6 months is the average time to get placed, and in an information session they said that 50% get placed within 6 months after the program. So while I do have a big advantage because of my degree, and I also have decent knowledge of and practice with technical interviews, and at least a few projects already, I don’t want to struggle for months after an already intensive program. If any App Academy graduates have information on how long it took to get a job and roughly how many applications were sent, I would appreciate that information very much.
