Author: A. Kasprzak
Title: Prognostic Biomarkers of Cell Proliferation in Colorectal Cancer (CRC): From Immunohistochemistry to Molecular Biology Techniques
Paper ID: fc0cbc6786aa423d40576699c604a98ab40fbe47
Year: 2023
Author Index: 2

Abstract:
Simple Summary This review aims to shed light on the proliferative markers important in the everyday clinical management of colorectal cancer (CRC), ranging from simple methods of assessing cellular proliferation (e.g., DNA ploidy, BrdUrd/IdUrd/tritiated thymidine binding index) to the use of immunohistochemistry (IHC) and modern molecular biology techniques (e.g., qRT-PCR, in situ hybridization, RNA/DNA sequencing) for the detection of genetic and epigenetic markers. Among the examined markers, the prognostic utility was demonstrated for aneuploidy and the overexpression of IHC markers (e.g., TS, cyclin B1, and D1, PCNA, and Ki-67). Classical genetic markers of prognostic significance mostly comprise mutations in commonly examined genes such as APC, KRAS/BRAF, TGF-β, and TP53. Chromosomal markers include CIN and MSI, while CIMP is indicated as a potential epigenetic marker with many other candidates such as SERP, p14, p16, LINE-1, and RASSF1A. Modern technology-based approaches to study non-coding fragments of the human genome have also yielded some candidates for CRC prognostic markers among the lncRNAs (e.g., SNHG1, SNHG6, MALAT-1, CRNDE) and miRNAs (e.g., miR-20a, miR-21, miR-143, miR-145, miR-181a/b). With growing knowledge of the human genome structure and the rapid development of molecular biology techniques, it is hoped that a panel of reliable prognostic markers could improve the assessment of survival as well as allow for the better estimation of the treatment outcomes for CRC patients. Abstract Colorectal cancer (CRC) is one of the most common and severe malignancies worldwide. Recent advances in diagnostic methods allow for more accurate identification and detection of several molecular biomarkers associated with this cancer. Nonetheless, non-invasive and effective prognostic and predictive testing in CRC patients remains challenging. Classical prognostic genetic markers comprise mutations in several genes (e.g., APC, KRAS/BRAF, TGF-β, and TP53). Furthermore, CIN and MSI serve as chromosomal markers, while epigenetic markers include CIMP and many other candidates such as SERP, p14, p16, LINE-1, and RASSF1A. The number of proliferation-related long non-coding RNAs (e.g., SNHG1, SNHG6, MALAT-1, CRNDE) and microRNAs (e.g., miR-20a, miR-21, miR-143, miR-145, miR-181a/b) that could serve as potential CRC markers has also steadily increased in recent years. Among the immunohistochemical (IHC) proliferative markers, the prognostic value regarding the patients’ overall survival (OS) or disease-free survival (DFS) has been confirmed for thymidylate synthase (TS), cyclin B1, cyclin D1, proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA), and Ki-67. In most cases, the overexpression of these markers in tissues was related to worse OS and DFS. However, slowly proliferating cells should also be considered in CRC therapy (especially radiotherapy) as they could represent a reservoir from which cells are recruited to replenish the rapidly proliferating population in response to cell-damaging factors. Considering the above, the aim of this article is to review the most common proliferative markers assessed using various methods including IHC and selected molecular biology techniques (e.g., qRT-PCR, in situ hybridization, RNA/DNA sequencing, next-generation sequencing) as prognostic and predictive markers in CRC.