Year: 2024
Author: tomdawg0022
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/VintageNBA/comments/1evexh4/1st_picks_of_postmerger_expansion_teams/

There have been 8 expansion teams since the merger in '76. How have teams fared in their first pick, either in terms of what the player did on the team or in terms of assets gained in an inevitable trade (in most cases)? Given draft rules for expansion teams, no team in the modern expansion era has drafted 1st (Charlotte 2004 drafted 2nd and was closest of the teams). * 1980 - Kiki Vandeweghe (Dallas, 11th pick). Kiki didn't want to play on an expansion team and held out. Was traded to Denver for two picks, one becoming Rolando Blackman. The other (1985's 1st) was punted to Portland with Wayne Cooper for a year of Kelvin Ransey. Kiki was the 3rd best player by VORP in the '80 draft and the return on the trade was arguably very solid given circumstances. * 1988 - Rex Chapman (Charlotte, 8th). Rex was hurt a lot, traded at arguably rock bottom for his career arc to Washington for Tom Hammonds. Hammonds ended up getting cut by Charlotte less than a year after the trade. Dan Majerle and Rod Strickland were drafted after Rex but given Rex's college pedigree, Charlotte picked the expected player at that spot. * 1988 - Rony Seikaly (Miami, 9th). The Spin Doctor had a respectable career in Miami over 6 years, averaging 15 and 10 and working on his DJ game. Traded for Billy Owens at the start of the '94 season, Rony ended up bouncing around between Golden St, Orlando, and the Nets before trading his sneakers in for a turntable. Rony, like Rex, didn't metric out super well for his career, but almost dropped 10,000 points over his run in the NBA. Solid pick. * 1989 - Pooh Richardson (Minnesota, 10th). Pooh played his best basketball in Minnesota under Bill Musselman but clashed with Muss over his tendencies to micromanage the offense. After a year under Jimmy Rodgers, Pooh was traded to Indiana and then eventually to the Clippers. The Wolves picked up Chuck Person and Micheal Williams in the trade, which on paper looked really good for the Wolves. However, Person's play dropped off and Micheal Williams' feet got shredded in '94 and that was all she wrote for those two with the Wolves. Wolves passed on Tim Hardawy and Mookie Blaylock to draft Pooh. Pooh was a great fit for halfcourt play in Minnesota so the pick made some sense but probably wasn't the best possible pick at that spot. * 1990 - Nick Anderson (Orlando, 11th). Pre-free throws, Nick looked legit as a 2nd and 3rd option for the Magic. Got the yips at the free throw line after '95 and then injuries eventually did him in as a player. Still notched 11,000 points. Given Orlando went for a wing in that draft, it was arguably the best possible selection that could be made given what they were looking at. * 1995 - Bryant Reeves (Vancouver, 6th). Might be the worst 1st pick of expansion teams, regardless of team or outcome. Despite college accolades and very good numbers at Oklahoma St., Reeves was slow and his lack of speed hurt defensively in the NBA big time. Despite great size, wasn't very effective as a post big although he put up 15 and 8 over his first three seasons (scoring was ok but his rebounding for a big man was not). Shot 50% only once (97-98) but battled conditioning issues and subsequent injuries from '99 on. Reeves ended up retiring in 2002. Given Vancouver's big man pick, Kurt Thomas would have been a better choice although had Vancouver gone best player, Damon Stoudamire, Brent Barry, Bob Sura, Michael Finley were all taken later in the first. * 1995 - Damon Stoudamire (Toronto, 7th). Was a great fit until Isiah Thomas left the Raptors early in the '97-'98 season. Demanded a trade and got it at the '98 deadline, going to Portland with Walt Williams for Kenny Anderson (for a week), Gary Trent, Alvin Wiliams, and 2 1sts. Kenny was promptly flipped for Chauncey Billups, who was then moved a few months later in a three-team deal that netted the Raptors two 1sts (Mo Peterson and Jonathan Bender, who was flipped for Antonio Davis). Stoudamire was the right pick at 7 and generally would have been the right situation until things went south with Isiah and the Raptors. However, the Raptors did reasonably well in the sum return of their deals (yeah, keeping Chauncey would have been the best move but getting Antonio Davis and Mo Peterson was not a bad net result). * 2004 - Emeka Okafor (Charlotte, 2nd). Had a solid run in Charlotte before getting flipped for Tyson Chandler in 2009. Given Okafor's college creds, he was generally seen as one of the top picks in that draft and got rookie of the year in '05. Never matched the 15 and 11 he put up in his rookie year but injuries and a gradual change in how bigs were used in the NBA impacted his stats to a degree. Al Jefferson had a better career line than Okafor but Okafor was a pretty good pick at 2 given what Charlotte went for. Kiki was probably the best first overall pick in terms of career, with Nick Anderson and Damon Stoudamire not far behind. I'd probably put Nick, Damon, and Rony as the best three in terms of performance and impact on their initial team. Reeves would have been the biggest bust, even if he hadn't gone from Big Country to Bigger Country over his career. His rebounding for a 7' was not very good nor was his shooting or quickness. Reeves was a great college player but in a faster NBA was quickly outmatched most nights.
