Year: 2024
Author: mombutt
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/MechanicAdvice/comments/1d6k467/2007_chevrolet_silverado_2500hd_startno_start/

I have a 2007 Chevrolet Silverado 2500HD that recently has had trouble starting and the shop it was at last week couldn't get to the bottom of the issues. I am looking for advice on where to head and if I should just send it to the dealership or if I have missed something. I have had the truck for about a year, it had 125K on it, and previous services were unknown though it was owned by family that maintained their vehicles so I assume it had received basic maintenance. It had sat for 1/2 years with little use but fired right up as has been reliable for the last year with a few minor issues. Minor issues over last year. -TPS monitor in one tire not communicating and the dash says tire pressure is low when they are good. -4 wheel selector switch occasionally will put the truck in 4wd on start-up and will have to be unplugged to change back to 2wd. -Once the truck wouldn't start and I had to manually prime the fuel pump. Major issues that have evolved. -Initially the check engine light came on and the codes read intake sensor clean or something along those lines, used a diesel intake cleaner and reset the code and it went away. -A few months later it would have very low power when going uphill under load, wouldn't shift, and the glow plug lights would come on, once up the hill and not under load the truck would shift and accelerate and drive fine. After resetting the the glow plug module the issue seemed to go away. -A month ago the truck would not turn over, both batteries had full voltage. The security light on the dash was on, so tried the key relearn process a few times with no luck. If the battery is left unplugged for roughly 24 hours the truck will start and run with no issues, plenty of power, no smoke, but once parked if shut down it usually will not start again for 24 hours. The shop it has been at told me they scanned it while running and it had some break sensor codes, but nothing to indicate other issues. They did say it shows lost communication with ECM / PCM / BCM each time this happens. So I figure something is going on with one of those systems. What should I be looking for? Thanks!
