Year: 2024
Author: eric_twinge
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/iamveryfit/comments/1csa4i6/really_but_what_i_believe_about_supplements_and/

I can't lie. I might tell you I believe in the exact same thing of whatworks or what doesn't. I, most of all, above all else, would hands down out right tell anyone that training is most important than anything, and couldn't care regardless of whoever it is I tell that to whether if you're a pro bodybuilder or been working out for years thinking you've understood all there is to technically know about the body. However. This is me being honest about supplements. Yeah, I could absolutely wholeheartedly agree on that besides the big two anything else isn't likely ever going to be worth your time or energy to even put thought into taking just to fullfill some kind of goal you're reaching for even when all else like training and nutrition has failed you. I know this because it's not like I wasn't guilty of ever taking supplements anything I could to still see any kind of difference at all. I'll even be able to say that about creatine even or protein even. I'm 122lbs and people assume that I never learned how to work out even or that I have an eating disorder. I've had 5 years of more serious training, although I started working out when I was 7. I've made a conscious effort to eat as much protein as I possibly could, I've had as much protein powder to fill a shelf of a health and fitness shop even by the time I was in 9th grade, and I kept a tub of creatine in my school gym locker. But, what would be my point then? I wouldn't be the one to say about that creatine or protein might wouldn't be capable of building muscle. None of the supplements I've spent closer to over a 1000$ on have transformed me in any meaningful way and it's not just do I take supplements either, I mean, I've literally put anything that you could think of into my body at some point or another if it was having a chance to improve my health. But I'm some bizarre mystery. I'm not trying to make saying all this a point about me. I apparently wouldn't respond well to taking supplements even if I try, but I'm not one who's abke to build much mass like other people should have been able to. If there's something, anything, I might believe help someone else on there way to developing themselves, which is under the one assumption that at that point nothing else can possibly work for them, supplements are how I'm going to recommend for them. I'm not going for to be that guy trying simply talking about are any round about ways to make you achieve your body goal, all I'm really interested in is when someone might say there might be a problem, because I'm not the one to come to about advice about your body, if the way your body is does be a problem for you, at best or most the only thing I recommend are supplements, and that's because they work, it's just not how everyone would be thinking or I wouldn't be the one saying I recommend supplements. Do they work or whether they might is a totally separate issue for discussion, but can you trust them? That's all I'm saying. They're supplements for a reason, and only the supplements that do actually work it's those, you should be able trust them. If all that might could have possibly worked in this life in this world were only creatine and protein, or just eating which happens to be important also, then the most majority of the vast fitness industry wouldn't even exist right now, everyone helping people who said nothing is working what I would I have to do would be out of a job right now. I know it's messed up, that's just people's body's.
