Year: 2024
Author: Godi22kam
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/MensRights/comments/1bz1v2n/the_fine_line_of_conflict_between_women_and_men/

The fine line of conflict between women and men The attitude and hypocrisy of women is ironic and funny. Everything is a consequence of your own actions in life. It's funny that the majority, especially older women, manipulate younger women mentally and ideologically to encourage promiscuity and sex in order to enjoy life until they reach despair when they turn 25 years old, in which they begin to beat the desperation of marrying anyone to have children and stability. This is the worst type of woman in a relationship, they are toxic and bad people deceiving good men by pretending to be worthy saints and prudes. In reality, this is the worst type of woman to have a relationship with in life because she shows that she immensely hates men with good virtues even though she wants them to be financially supported. Every man who has self-love, high values, male empowerment and gender awareness and social class awareness denies this type of woman in his life who does not and will never seek a real bond with you. Real men know where to find the right person and will always look to younger women to create a strong bond so they can later get married and have several children. If you have minimal knowledge of biology and natural selection, you know that I'm telling the complete truth. A man has basic criteria for a woman to start a family and many nowadays do not meet these minimum requirements, which are: - being young; - almost no promiscuity or relationships; - religious; - conservative; - want to form a family from an early age and have several children. In short, generally the man: - first dates the girl for at least 6 to 7 years of dating; - then marriage; - then there are several biological children of your own blood. Women know that men always look for this, the question for you women is: are you really willing to have a non-toxic and true relationship offering your best years of life as a girl (youth) to the man and would you be willing to give the he children and live many years married until old age? If your answer is yes, congratulations, you have overcome feminist ideology and are in a lasting, non-toxic marriage. You are a rare woman in society (0.0099% of the population). If you are a feminist man and you don't agree with my opinion about true facts of reality, I'm sorry but you urgently need a psychologist, but if you insist I suggest you get involved with older women and try your luck to have children with disabilities. Statically, let's make assumptions about a woman's expiration date: - a woman between the ages of 30 and 39 decided to start a family and want to have children--> let's say she finds a man willing to get married and meet her --> after 6 after 7 years of dating, the woman will be in the age range of 36 or 37 to 45 or 46 years old --> after 1 or 2 years of marriage and both couples decide to have children---> the wife will try to have children in the range of 38 to 40 or 47 to 48 years old to have the first one once in her life --> Practically the wife will need years of hormonal therapy to have her first child in her life --> 5 years pass in the attempt and we assume that the wife is now 43 to 45 or 52 to 53 years old or has her first child, but it is a "special" child with a genetic carrier of down syndrome --> the husband wanted to have more children and the wife is unable to have one anyway wanting --> both parents become too old or die before the child reaches adulthood. --> lost and helpless child in the future. ---> child's psychological problems --> end
