Year: 2024
Author: skwyckl
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/webdev/comments/1h7wmcg/recently_i_have_been_trying_out_llms_for_coding/

Since LLMs (ChatGPT, Mistral, etc.) became popular, I have used them for basic things, but only sporadically for coding. Recently, I was entrusted a Vue 3 codebase, and since I didn't know Vue, I thought to myself: Why not get some help from AI? So, I started trying out different models and to my surprise, it's incredible how even basic things such as flexbox in component styling is just too much for them. Anything that has to do with styling, really, that goes beyond "Set this component's border color to light gray". If you use Vuetify and custom style classes, then the machine just doesn't WTH is going on anymore. Also, I tried it to make it tell me the difference between React's portals and Vue 3's teleport functionality, and it was disappointing to say the least. The fun became real, though, when I asked it how to teleport a Vue 3 component into a Cytoscape JS node; After 30 minutes or so of back and forth prompting, I gave up, and this is in general how my sessions end: With time wasted, frustration and back at the start of the task. Other behaviours I have noticed are: * In the same chat, repeating the same answer to different prompts (this is typical of Mistral), even though you try to nudge it in the right direction by telling it the answer wasn't satisfactory. * Making up random stuff, e.g., CSS directives or a function's options and then saying "My bad, you're right. Function x doesn't have the option y". * Mixing up versions (e.g., Vue 2 patterns in Vue 3) ... and more. Honestly, the majority of the time it's useless. Also, for beginners, this is probably the worst one can do to learn programming, people should stay the hell away from it under they have some experience under the belt. Ultimately, I agree that it's just a fancy information retrieval algo and nothing more, and for basic, simple info, it's infinitely superior to e.g. Google.
