Year: 2024
Author: WaldoOU812
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/sysadmin/comments/18zhzp1/stupid_user_tricks/

A random thread on another subreddit got me to remembering this story, which still makes me chuckle. Also, just to preface this, I recognize that we're all ignorant until we've been exposed to something, but ignorant and rude is where I draw the line. &#x200B; Brand new sales admin asst, back in the day when a 10Mb internet circuit was a big deal, decides to email everyone in the sales department a 25Mb file attachment. Crashes Exchange for everyone in North America. Exchange admin finds the email and deletes it, I go talk to the admin and ask her nicely not to do that again, and btw, here's how to save files to the file server; please do that and share the location with everyone. Next day, she sends an email with a 37Mg file attachment. Crashes Exchange again. Exchange admin deletes that email, and I go talk to the director of sales and marketing to explain why email was down a second time in days. She's not happy, but understands that mistakes happen, tells me she'll have a talk with the admin asst. Day #3, I get a frantic call from the DOSM, telling me that all the sales folders are gone. I restore them from a Shadow Copy, so it's maybe an hour worth of work they lost, and when I look at the logs, yep; it's that sales admin again. After restoring the files, I go talk to her again and ask her not to do that again. She comes near to screaming at me, tells me, "MY HUSBAND WORKS IN IT AND HE MAKES DOUBLE YOUR SALARY!" Loudly and repeatedly insists she didn't do it (that's where the anger seemed to come from). Okay. I'm the absolute model of politeness (it's a corporate managed hotel, so you don't get to be rude if you work in IT, even if it's justified) and tell her, "that's fine, but I still need you to please not delete the files again, and yes, I can prove you did it because here's a printout of the logs." Day #4, I get another call from the DOSM, not quite as frantic, but definitely frustrated, to let me know the sales folders are gone again. Restored them from Shadow Copy, went up to go talk to sales admin, she's not there. Run into the DOSM, who explains that sales admin is currently down in HR, receiving her final check, as she's been fired.
