Year: 2024
Author: cametumbling
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/badroommates/comments/1ghiu5o/heating_advice_needed/

So, I have four flatmates and we live in an ex-council estate where the gas is just billed at an exorbitant flat-rate that no one has any control over, so we pay a tonne for it no matter how much we use. Flat is three floors, concrete, so the lower ground floor is fcking freezing and the top floor which is all windows is like a green house. The common areas therefore are never cold and don't really need to be heated much if at all. I live on the lower ground floor and I'm tired of being cold. We pay so much for heat, no one should be cold. The other guy down here is using a space heater to warm his room, which is mad because we all have to share that electricity cost. The thermostat is next to the kitchen, which is also always boiling from cooking/laundry, so it literally never turns on. Every room has adjustable radiators. I want to propose that we just turn off (or to low) all the radiators so no one gets too hot/no energy is wasted, then we set the thermostat to just be on, then people just warm their rooms by turning on their radiators when they want to. This is the logical solution, I feel, and how heating is handled in larger houses/bedsits/etc. I feel like this makes way more sense and will result in way fewer disagreements as everyone will be in control of their own temperature. Just now I was trying to warm my room and someone else on my floor went and turned the thermostat off because they're too warm, so now I'm still cold. It's so stupid. Even if we didn't have the extreme differential between floors, no two people are alike and we're too old for thermostat wars. I just wanted to sanity check this idea here before proposing it to the house, because I know heat is such a contentious issue and generally people like me who need the heat in their room on are seen as the bad guy. If there is some downside of leaving the thermostat on and just controlling it at the radiator level please let me know, I don't want to accidentally be wasting energy or something.
