Year: 2023
Author: FIREATWlLL
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/AskPhysics/comments/14a7jqx/could_mass_be_a_variable_for_the_time_dilation/

I was thinking about the idea that "the universe could be a computer/sim" and imagining that there might be a "budget" for how much compute a frame of reference gets, depending on the mass in the frame. If a frame of reference is moving faster, it might have "more interaction" at the interface of it and "everything else". This would expend more of the budget of to compute what is happening inside the frame. With a theoretical point object, the "compute budget" will depend simply on speed. With real objects with >0 mass/stuff, then the mass (or whatever metric for "stuff") becomes relevant. It would also mean that surface area of the object becomes relevant to time dilation, and also the density of "stuff" across the interface of that frame of reference. As an example, if we take a perfectly spherical entity, we would expect that as mass increases (-> size increases with condition of same density) then time dilation of the frame decreases (for any given speed, except c which would always be 0). Why? Because for a larger sphere, there is a smaller surface area to volume ratio, which means that the surface (interface) of the frame of reference (sphere) is smaller relative to the volume of the frame itself, so will take less of the compute budget. If we elongate a sphere of a fixed mass along the y axis (shrinking z and x sizes) then we would expect time dilation to be higher because more compute budget gets dedicate to the interace, as SA to V ratio increases. If you increased density of external "stuff" and the interface of one hemisphere relative to the other hemisphere, I am not sure what this would mean, but could be interesting to think about. I don't take this idea seriously but thought it was fun to think about. It would be cool to see an experiment for time dilation of an object with mass being an independent variable (maybe its been done?).
