Year: 2023
Author: Godi22kam
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/confessions/comments/15ujycv/debate_about_relationship_and_age_differences/

Throughout my life I realize that women, the majority, are the most angry about relationships and that's too weird for me. I use twitter a lot to follow the daily news and update myself. The biggest issue l've seen at some time or another is always women complaining about men's relationship demands. And recently saw a video of the woman complaining about the man having made a list of 5 characteristics for not marrying women. Obviously it's his personal taste and probably he should have shared it to see who agrees with the opinion (probably). So I look at the comments and analyze that most women judge the guy for being ugly and that he shouldn't have the option of choices. It is surprising the amount of older women and many of them from the standard of beauty than the guy who expressed his opinion in public. I don't know if it's a trend on the internet to always go viral, but it's wrong to discriminate based on appearance because the person just expressed a preference for a partner. Well think it's childish for women to impose on men to accept someone in the relationship that they don't want. This already starts wrong and generates that whole situation of toxic relationships. This is also valid for men, however I see that women are the ones who feel most affected by the man's choice to be with someone. Well that's my perception. Anyway, men and women have specific tastes. People just need to accept a man's particular choice of partner or a woman's particular choice of partner. I particularly prefer dating young women with the objective of companionship, starting a family and having healthy children without genetic problems. And this is not wrong and has nothing to do with manipulation. People are very mentally ill and do not understand that they are alone because a relationship is about building something together and being a true companion. You have to respect people's choice of partner and look for people who have the same tastes as yours. Many men like me are looking for long-term relationships that make it possible to form more than 40 years of marriage in the future. Women just have to accept men's preferences and look for men who seek the same preferences as hers. What I see most on the internet is women complaining about men's partner preference and this is a very childish attitude. No one has the right to judge people's choices. The woman has the right to have sex with whoever she wants and the man has the right to choose the woman he wants to be with. The problem is that people are toxic and don't see reality. The fight for ideology and laws that favor the fight between genders will only keep people apart instead of bringing people together. Respect and companionship is fundamental, something you earn with good deeds and you look for it in someone from an early age for a living. And no law in the world will make you have true happiness and feel truly and genuinely loved.
