Year: 2023
Author: MundanePotato6
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/berkeley/comments/15jw9s2/the_barbenheimer_woosh_a_short_rant/

A little late to the party, but I wanted to talk a little bit about the reaction to the barbie/oppenheimer movies. After watching them a couple of weeks ago, I felt like both movies were really good but was hit with a barrage of criticism for both of them. After sorting through said criticism, it appears that a vast majority of people that didn't like either movie simply didn't understand the point. The barbie movie's main critics complained about it being "anti-man", which even though it's laughably inaccurate, I'll try to break down. See, it's presented from the beginning as being from a woman's perspective. It acknowledges societal issues and indifferences- *from a woman's perspective.* And given that the default is a man, I think some of these "critics" felt attacked from the beginning. So attacked that they missed the part where Barbie literally says, "It's not barbie and ken, it's barbie and it's ken". Both men and women are made to be equally important and powerful so long as they don't tear each other down. In fact, the movie showed that while the Kens were fucking insufferable during their "patriarchy" phase, they weren't really ideal when their lives revolved around the barbies either. Now for oppenheimer. The main complaints here were that the movie glorified the bomb, or that in sympathizing with Oppy's struggle it ignored the war crimes of Japan, or even that it glossed over what America did to other nations. Here's the problem- the entire purpose of the film wasn't just to show the negatives of the invention, or the people killed as a result. It was to show us the complex legacy of a man whose greatest invention became one of his greatest sources of shame and fear. The film's final words are "I believe we did", referencing his belief that their actions would in fact end the world. &#x200B; TL,DR; I think that both movies had messages more complex than a lot of people wanted to give them credit for, purely because they didn't like the fact that these topics were being made movies of in the first place. But I'd love to hear your thoughts
