Year: 2023
Author: 1PG22n
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/PHP/comments/170ogpf/easiest_way_out_of_opencart_into_something_serious/

Hey everyone I work with a company that uses Opencart. The legacy website gets the job done, and the orders are coming in, so the owner is not eager to make any big moves and spend much extra. But Opencart very often limits what I can do. Example: I would like to automate the refunds. Opencart's built-in tool for this is the Returns, having these problems: - One product per return. Returning multiple products means creating and handling multiple returns. Clutters the database and requires extra clicks. Also having to sum up the totals of every return. - No support for refunding the postage / shipping fee. - No built-in mechanism for credit notes. So I either have to reinvent my own solution, or hotfix the native tool beyond recognition. (And don't even get me started on vQmod / ocMod.) This is one of many small examples on top of big architecture problems. - Checkout validation is done in the catalog (as in, storefront) checkout controller. If you need to reuse the same validation logic in the admin order editing, you either duplicate it, or load a storefront controller into an admin controller, which breaks the catalog vs. admin architecture and is not MVC at all. There is no shared order or checkout model across both catalog and admin. - The order model in the admin doesn't support editing the order itself or changing its status. You can't do it in the admin code, instead you make HTTP requests to "API" endpoint in catalog. Stop and think about this for a moment. And there's more. At the end of the day it feels like you're fighting the system (as in, framework) instead of having it help you and readily provide the tools you need. Is there a relatively cheap and/or easy way out of Opencart? And where to? I looked at Prestashop, and while how it's built on top of Symfony sounds promising, the whole thing seems very overcomplicated, but that's maybe how it needs to be. I also considered feeding the data into Pimcore or Odoo, using that for product/warehouse management, and either using some existing frontend or building our own. Lastly, I considered simply making our existing Opencart database headless with our own frontend built using CakePHP or Laravel. This will probably require some potentially breaking DB structure changes, like for the returns above. Do you know anyone who went through this and documented the experience? All I'm finding is paid connectors. (Please let me know if there's a better sub for this question? Maybe /r/ecommerce?)
