Year: 2022
Author: bowlbettertalk
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/opera/comments/w7ft7x/ariane_et_barbebleue_at_west_edge_opera_oakland_ca/

The opera: I had zero familiarity with the work prior to seeing the performance. Although it didn't have any arias or duets as such, the music flowed nicely and was well-written vocally, and dealt seriously with its subjects. Somewhat Wagnerian in flavor, and quoted Pelleas et Melisande when dealing with a character who had the latter's name; the program notes argued that this opera was meant to be a prequel to that one. The cast: The woman who sang Ariane (Renee Rapier) was terrific, but I was particularly impressed by the Nurse (Sara Couden), whom my entire group agreed had A Set of Pipes on her. Barbe-Bleue (Philip Skinner) didn't have a lot of lines considering he was a title character, but what little he did sing sounded good. I was also impressed by the women who sang his other wives, especially the Selysette (Silvie Jensen). I don't know much about conducting, but the conductor (Jonathan Khuner) struck a nice balance and didn't let the orchestra drown out the singers. The production: I may be a bit biased, as the people I saw the opera with were friends with the director. However, I thought she had a really interesting take on the work that basically made it about Ariane helping the other characters discover their true selves. I particularly liked the use of mirrors as a way of characters discovering themselves and each other. There were instances also of characters getting dressed (Barbe-Bleue) and undressed (same, also the Nurse), but these were meant as representations of their spiritual and emotional states and not just gratuitous (partial) nudity. There was a minor set malfunction when some cloth "windows" that were supposed to "break" didn't all come down at the same time, but they all eventually got there. Overall, I was grateful for the opportunity to see this work performed by a good cast, even if the venue (Scottish Rite Temple in Oakland) has kind of weird acoustics. Can't wait to go back next weekend for Giulio Cesare!
