Year: 2022
Author: Zoidaryan1985
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/rant/comments/wwqvhf/im_so_tired_of_hearing_things_will_get_better/

I’m so sick and tired of hearing “things will get better.” It’s a phrase I’ve heard most of my life. I remember getting cards from my family’s church with this phrase when we lost our home in 2001, then again when our next home flooded out in 2004, and yet again in 2011 when we lost our home again… I remember hearing it from my mom whenever I was bullied through school, “things will get better in middle school.” “Things will get better when you reach high school.” “Things will get better when you graduate.” “Things will get better after college.” It feels like I’ve been waiting my entire life for things to get better but things just… don’t. I can’t get a job that pays more than $14,000 annually, I’m drowning in debt, and my health is starting to fail at 31 due to “poor eating habits, not enough sleep, and too much stress” according to my doctor (hard to do either of those things on a strict ramen budget working two jobs with one of those being night shift). I actually thought I might get a job that actually pays $15 an hour doing something I like doing, but my current boss wound up giving it to someone he re-hired… I wish I could find somewhere that pays $15. I’d be happy with that. But everywhere is too far away to drive to due to gas or the ad says $15 but they meant to put “up to” and it’s really just $8… This year it seems like I’ve heard that phrase the most. I caught COVID in January a day after my old workplace decided to eliminate their paid Covid leave, and it put me in the hospital for over a week and a month out of work. “Things will get better.” Before that, I helped my dad out after he had to have surgery. Wiped out my savings. Then a month before I got sick, I had to take out a $12k loan to replace my well pump and piping due to the severe cold snap we had in December. And then I lost my job after my old workplace wasn’t happy that I spoke out about having my hours cut to part-time, and I wasn’t able to prove that I was fired through no fault of my own, so that was almost another month of no income… “Things will get better, things will get better.” I just vented to about the only person I have on this earth that I can vent to, and all they had to say was “things will get better.” I’m not saying that that’s not true for most people, I know people who have had it worse than me and are now doing outstanding. But for the rest of us… I don’t think it gets better. And if it does, it’s only for a short time and then something will happen and you’re right back where you started or worse… Sorry my rant is so disjointed and unorganized. Running on only 4 hours of sleep…
