Year: 2022
Author: ultrarunner13
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/ultrarunning/comments/vzawav/training_through_excessive_work_travel_and_long/

Hi all! I'm seeking advice on training and maintaining fitness through work travel and long hours on the road. I travel anywhere from a few days to about a week and a half one to two times a month. I'm currently training for a marathon but I want to extend that training and keep on pushing to do another 50 miler. I've run a number of marathons, 50ks, and one 50 miler so I'm not new to the ultra training regime. However, I haven't trained through this kind of travel. While I'm on the road, I generally work, at least, 12-hour days. The days are long and exhausting as I'm generally on my feet most of the day. On the last trip I took, we were working 15-hour days and I was averaging \~25,000 steps per day, for 7 days straight. I ran once on that trip and it only exhausted me more. Sleep is always the priority but I was in New Orleans and wanted to get out and runsplore once. In a perfect world, I would tough it out and wake up early every day and get the miles in, but I can't tell you how mentally and physically exhausting it is to be working those long hours for days on end. My plan is to maintain my training plan as best possible and then do what I can when traveling. However, I will surely miss some runs with this kind of travel. Does it make more sense to just keep the clock running and pick up where I should be when I get back from trips or should I stop the clock and pick up where I left off when I get back? I imagine the answer may vary based on the runs that I might miss but I'm looking for a general consensus. I want to ensure that I am maintaining as much fitness as I can while on the road. I realize I won't lose too much in a week, but I don't want to end up injured. Anyway, any advice is appreciated. Happy running! TLDR: Should I pause my training when traveling or pick back up where I should be when I get back from long, exhausting work trips?
