Year: 2022
Author: soberingthought
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/stopdrinking/comments/su2lwr/playing_the_tape_forward/

/u/wilbursmall's DCI post today really struck me. She discussed "visioning" and it made me think of how the only "visioning" I allow myself to indulge in is "playing the tape forward" and it goes a little something like this: --- I'm tired after a long day. I pour a few fingers of whiskey into my favorite drinking glass, sink into the couch, and take that first, well-deserved sip... Fast forward a month? a week? a day? an hour? I'm in the garage, swilling warm vodka straight from the handle after I've filled my trusty old, crinkly water bottle to the brim so I can sneak it to my nightstand for the night. I'm full of shame and guilt but my craving for _more_ overrides any sensibility. I hear my kids calling for me in the house. They probably want to play or some shit, but I don't want them to know I'm drunk so I yell at them to leave me alone. I'll have to avoid my wife too so she won't smell my breath. I hope I don't blackout again tonight because it's so hard to pretend I remember the night before when I'm having breakfast with everyone. But then again, if I'm not blacking out, I didn't drink enough. Maybe tomorrow I'll come back to SD and start over. But right now the damage is done, so I might as well go hog wild. SD will always be there so I can go back eventually. Ugh. And when I do, it'll be such a pain in the ass. I don't want to spend those first 2.5 years of this next sobriety thinking about how I had more than 2.5 years under my belt and threw it away. Forget my recovery program. Sure they'd welcome me back and be glad to help me, but I don't want to start over on that shit. It clearly doesn't work or else I wouldn't be drunk. Fuck sobriety. It's too hard and I'm a piece of shit anyway. Why should I try? --- Dark, right? But it's a good encapsulation of the life I would find at the bottom of a bottle. It's not even an exaggeration, though I wish it was. It is precisely the hole I crawled out of just a couple of years ago. It baffles me that I could ever contemplate drinking again if these are the kinds of consequences, but I do. Most days, I do. Many days it's just a fleeting thought, like a gnat I can just flick away and it's gone. Somedays, it's a lingering rumination. That's when I play this tape, or something like it. Early on, when I was really battling cravings and obsessing about drinking, I'd hop on SD and read/comment/post until I felt safe. I'm happy to say I haven't felt like that's necessary in a long time. I'm forever grateful to this community for my sobriety. The best way I can think to pay you all back is to stick around and be helpful when and where I can. IWNDWYT
