Year: 2022
Author: nightlovell12
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/fragrance/comments/wqbu0w/review_of_20_fragrances_from_someone_who_just_got/

In the last few months I have tried many fragrances. In this post I will be going over and giving a review of most of them. I will start off with the 10/10 and progress down. 1. Creed - Aventus. Lets just get this out of the way now. I mean what is there to say about this that hasnt been said already. I personally get great longevity out of it and is one of my most worn fragrances. 10/10 2. Creed - Silver Mountain Water. At first this was questionable to me and I did not how to feel. The more I wear it, the more i love it. It has a great tea vibe to it and there is nothing that compares to that tea smell. This is a master piece. 10/10 3. Moustache - EDP. Perfect winter fragrance to imo, fantastic opening and a very strong vanilla scent throughout the drydown. I have heard this smells like YSL Tuxedo, i cant put any input on that since I have never smelled that but if its anything like this, it is probably amazing 10/10. 4. Therry Mugler - Pure Havane. This is a perfect gourmand smell, opens with cherry, honey and tobacco. It smells amazing to me and lasts forever. I got a 2013 bottle of this and it is absolutely perfection to me. 10/10 5. MFK - Amyris Homme EDT. I get a very creamsicle smell on this, it has a great opening and the dry down is even better. I wish this lasted longer because I would definitely buy a full bottle of it. 9.5/10 6. Creed- Millesime Imperial. This is an absolute master piece, it has a great salty melon vibe to it and i absolutely love this. I just wished it lasted a little longer and for that it loses a point. 9/10 7. Creed - Green Irish Tweed. This is perfect for spring, absolute classic fragrance. I dont think younger people will respect this as much as some of the more matre audience. It is 100 percent a classic. 9/10 8. ADG - Profondo. This is great for the summer, I have been wearing this a lot of as well. It has a very good drydown and this does actually get me compliments. It has a very marine smelling dry down. I also get a strong mineral note in this. 8.5/10 9. Azzaro - Wanted by Night. Huge blast of Cinnamon right off the top, sweet and a great cold weather fragrance. It is super strong and I recommend only about 2-3 sprays of this. 8/10 10. JPG - Le Male Ultra Male. Huge blast of vanilla right off the top. It is extremely sweet in my opinion and lasts decades. I think its a little to sweet for me. Great if you like sweet frags. 8/10 11. Mont Blanc - Explorer. This is supposedly a clone of Aventus but I dont really get that. In the beginning I can smell that but as it dries down it goes its own way. Huge ambroxan smell to it and its actually quite nice. Probably one of the most complimented fragrances I own. So if you are looking for that, its perfect for you. 8/10 12. Chanel - Allure Homme Sport. This is just a very basic blue fragrance that you can never go wrong with. It does smell like a creamsicle to me as well. Definitely a dumb grab if you need something to pick fast and just spray and go and not have to think. Doesn't last too long on me so I would have to take away some points for this. 7.5/10 13. Mont Blanc legend - EDP/ Parfum? This smells like you just walked into Abercrombie and Fitch in the mall with a hint of leather. Great for the winter also extremely strong, I use two sprays and i smell it all day. Just a little too strong for me, it sometimes can make me nauseous. 7/10 14. Creed - Royal Oud. This just smells to me as if someone ripped a piece of bark off a tree and put it in a bottle definitely not a huge fan of this. I havent worn this in the winter yet so we will see how that goes. Really undecided on this one right now. 6-7/10 15. Issey Miyake -L'eau D'issey Pour Homme. This to me has a very floral opening and dry down. If your into that stuff you will love this, it is a classic just not my personal favorite. 6/10 16. MFK - Amyris Homme Extrait De Parfum. This too me just smelled like a cinnamony chocolate bomb, was not a fan of this at all. It lasted forever also which I did not like. Had to scrub this off my wrist like 3 or 4 times to get rid of it. 5/10 17. MFK - Gentle Fluidity Silver. This smells great on my friend but on me I do not care for this at all on me. It does have the gin smell but it turns almost sweet and powdery on me. Im not sure exactly why this happens but I can not stand this on me. 5/10 18. MFK - BR540. Smells like burnt cotton candy, thats it. 4/10 19. Armaf- CDNIM. Can not stand this, opens of lemon cleaner and dries down to even more lemon, makes me sick when I wear this. 2/10 20. Givenchy - Gentlemen EDP. This is my least favorite fragrance I have ever smelled. It opens so powdery and just almost sickening. It has a huge smell of Iris, which I usually like but whatever this combo does to my skin makes me dislike this. 2/10 Let me know what you agree with and dont!
