Year: 2022
Author: shushupbuttercup
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/JUSTNOMIL/comments/vwitor/ive_turned_her_poor_baby_into_a_totally_different/

Another fun blow-up with JNMIL. Quick background: we live in a duplex, and she is on the other side of the building. She likes to come in and out of our house (we finally got her to knock, but if we don't answer she just opens the door anyway) and has basically one other person in her daily life - one longtime friend who stops in several days a week. In the past, she has proposed to me on behalf of her son (check my history to find the post about that doozy), tells me how I "need" to do things with my son (lol ... her poor son is so messed up by her enmeshment he can't decide what he wants for dinner), leaves garbage all over our shared back patio, expects immediate response to any request for help that she needs, and on and on and on. Saturday we were leaving to go to a neighborhood festival in the city I used to live in, and as we were leaving I noticed her pile of recyclable cardboard had grown to substantial proportions. Knowing she may hear me because her back door is always open - she can't be bothered to let her dogs in and out - I commented about how unsanitary and rude it is to let it pile up like that. Mind you, a good chunk of the pile was new cardboard and it looked like she had been cleaning up a bit - that's cool, but this is a recurring problem and underneath the new stuff were old food boxes and other cardboard that had been sitting there for over a week, getting rained on and peed on by the dogs. Fast forward to Sunday early afternoon. We're doing some inside house work - cleaning, moving furniture around, general home improvement stuff. She knocks on the door and comes in without being invited one time. Two times. Then just starts shouting in asking my partner to come see if she "cleaned enough" and do we want her to put down more gravel or add a concrete pad - blowing out of proportion his earlier mention that if she didn't get to her recycling he was going to take care of it later. This is all par for the course and totally expected. Partner tells her that all she needed to do was put her recycling into the recycling bin and that he would come talk to her when he was finished with what he was doing. Of course, an hour later she opens the door and shouts in, "You said you were doing some things inside and you would be out later! When are you going to check my cleaning?" He went out and I can hear her muffled wailing through the door. About 30 minutes later my dog wants out so I open the door, and the shouts are ramping up again. She's calling us snobs, so I tell partner to just come back in the house because this is not going anywhere. Then she tells him that I am turning him into another person and tells him to "ask your ex-wife" whatever that means. We've been together for 10 years now, longer than they were ever together. We walk into our house and close the door as she's moaning about how I have made him just terrible now. He told me after that she had said something about how she feels like I've replaced her in his life. Gross. Thankfully he told her that was a creepy thing to say. After we calmed down a bit I shared an article with him about enmeshment. It was basically a description of their relationship and his self-esteem issues. He's starting to see the light - he's always known this wasn't a healthy situation, but knowing that this is a thing with a name gives him some objective perspective. She apologized to him last night, and he is on board with going back to her to tell her that it is not OK that she talks to me or about me that way. I helped him understand that leaving me to deal with the way she talked to me only reinforces her view that I am the outsider here, and that he needs to continue establishing that he and I are the partners and SHE is not part of it. We'll see.
