Year: 2022
Author: shushupbuttercup
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Parenting/comments/s666od/resistance_to_participating_in_activities/

My 12-year-old has increasingly become less social and less willing to participate in any group activities. When he was younger, he tried soccer (the pressure of team sports was too much for him, and after three tries and some on-the-field humiliations he won't do anything like that again), orchestra (hated the violin halfway through the year), band (hated his instrument halfway through the year), and a couple of other things. Tai Kwan Do seemed promising, but since Covid he doesn't want to give it another try. Some of the other options that he may have had pre-pandemic have also dried up. He's a super artsy kid, and the sporting opportunities are just not his thing. I'm tired of fighting to get him to do something - I can often convince him to sign up for stuff, and often he even seems interested and excited when we first discuss it, but when it comes to actually going to something it's a nightmare to get him out of the house. With Covid still raging, it's extra difficult to find opportunities for him to participate in activities in group settings outside of school. Lately, he's even slimmed his circle of friends down to just a couple of kids - one of whom lives 45 minutes away so it's mostly online gaming. We're Covid-conscious but comfortable with him seeing his friends since most of their parents also seem to be at least reasonably cautious. I'm just looking for thoughts/advice/experiences to either make me feel OK with and accept that he's just in a stage and world situation where he has a small social life, or some guidance on how to make him feel comfortable in structured activity settings - and start trying new things. He often complains that he isn't "good at" anything (though his art skills are legitimately advanced) and that he doesn't "do anything." I've fully accepted that me suggesting things right now is a certain death knell for him actually taking up that thing, so I'm kind of at a loss here.
