Year: 2022
Author: GullibleEngineer4
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/pakistan/comments/vrgn7x/what_do_you_think_about_my_idea_to_cut_down_on/

These recent petrol hikes are wreaking havoc on the salaried class who have to commute daily. A lot of people are considering carpooling to share the cost of commuting. I have also seen a few startups for carpooling. Seeing all of this, I have been wondering whether we could do carpooling on a bigger scale. The basic realization is that a lot of people have the same daily commute routes but they don’t know each other. Carpooling apps can help us discover people sharing the same commute route but it is usually limited to 2 or 3 individuals. If we could find, say 50 people sharing the similar commute routes, we could save a lot more on fuel by booking a large coach to go from point A to B and pass on the savings to everyone. I am imagining a whole fleet of coaches with routes determined by optimizing for city wide (country wide?) total fuel consumption. The idea is similar to Airlift but the goal is minimizing total fuel consumption in a city instead of profit which brings with it distinct challenges and opportunities from traditional carpooling. In order to determine the routes for this fleet, access to data about the daily commute of a large enough random sample of people will be required. I think this shouldn’t be too difficult. It can be just a web hosted form. The data from form can be ingested by the backend and dumped to filesystem. Sharing this data collection service should also not be difficult, the url can be shared in large Facebook groups or even Social Media ads can also be utilized. The dataset can then be hosted publicly for people to hack away with and analyzed for route optimization. It needs to be manual for the first time, subsequently this data can be collected through the app on a daily basis. Ideally, this is what public transport should look like in my opinion where routes are informed by traffic patterns and real-time location of buses is shared through an app. However I feel like the government neither has the competence nor the interest in pulling it off, so we have to do something on our own, What do you think about the idea, suggestions or critiques are welcome!
