Year: 2022
Author: l4adventure
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/startrek/comments/xowtek/tng_elementary_dear_data_is_there_more_to_this/

Working my way through Star Trek for the first time! Loving it. So in this episode Geordi and Data have some adventures in the holodeck. Data explores Sherlock Holmes type mysteries in the holodeck, but the problem is that Data has memorized every mystery, and solves them all through "sheer rote". Geordi explains that the fun in a mystery is the possibility of failure, the unknown, and the knowledge that you might not figure it out; a puzzle you must untangle through wit, not just by memorizing outcomes. So Geordi prompts the computer to create a mystery which Data himself cannot solve easily. The rest of this episode unfolds in a way where one of the characters gains sentience (...maybe) as "an equal to data" (and an equal to Sherlock -- Moriarti) to challenge Data. He holds one of the crew members hostage, and takes control of the enterprise, thus putting Data in a tough situation where he cannot win inside the simulation. Since this starts to get dangerous, he leaves with Geordi, informs Picard, and they figure out as a team how to get control of the enterprise. Now, the episode concludes, with Picard talking to the simulation Moriarti, he tells him the truth, and tells him he cannot exist outside of the holodeck, and Moriarti accepts his fate, releases the prisoner and control of the enterprise, the end! Now at face value, the "challenge" data was given was just an adversary and a hostage situation, that bested him, and had to get Picard involved. However, this felt like a very unsatisfying ending and it didn't make sense to me. The mystery didn't really "best" Data, and the mystery seemed quite simplistic for someone like Data to solve, in the end, it was just a matter of figuring out who kidnapped the Doctor, which was quite obvious. Then I started thinking, what if the whole simulation/hostage situation was just a way to get Data to think about sentience? Was Moriarti Sentient? He was just a simulation, created by a computer, does he have a right to life? Was Piccard correct in keeping him in the simulation? What if the mystery itself that the computer creates is the big question of "what does it mean to be alive", or "what does it mean to be sentient". That is the real mystery that Data himself cannot solve? Two thoughts come to mind: * I'm reading too much into this (but it really seems the framing at the end implies there is more to this) * This is obviously the point of the episode and I'm just slow, however - they don't highlight this, or talk about my theory. This would be the first time that Star Trek uses such subtlety (up to the point that I have watched, which is TOS + TNG up to this episode) Thoughts?
