Year: 2023
Author: DiggingNoMore
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/127yub5/my_interaction_with_a_car_sales_scammer/

I've long wanted to purchase a DeLorean, so I've been saving money toward that goal. As it happens, you need a good $40,000 (or more!) to buy one. As I've gotten closer, I've kept a closer eye on DeLoreans for sale. Anyway, on one particular site, which I don't know if I'm allowed to mention, I saw a DeLorean for sale. The listing had been on the site for one day and the seller was asking $11,900. Both of these were obvious red flags. That being said, maybe the DeLorean didn't run at all or something, so I clicked the button to send an "I'm interested" e-mail to the seller. Here was the reply I got: "Hi I just saw your message, it was in my Junk folder. The vehicle is still available for sale. You have to know this is a private sale and I am not interested in any financing or loan deal. I would like to sell the vehicle only for cash. The car is not located in the USA anymore. It is located in Denmark, Europe. I live in Denmark. I bought this vehicle in the US at the time when I was there (I went to US to take some courses for my profession and I stayed there for about a year). Because of my country new regulations it is hard for me to register the vehicle here, and I think the best option for me now is to sell it back to the US because the vehicle still has a US title on it and it will be much easier for the new owner with the registration process (same as a regular registration in your country). Let me know if you still have interest in it. Attached you have more pics with the car. Thank you Greg" Here we have yet other red flags: 1) the car is (allegedly) in another country; and 2) the whole personal story that nobody asked about. And then, on top of that, the car's listing had been removed from the car sales website, so that was yet another red flag. I did e-mail the car sales website customer service, asking what happened to the listing (to see if someone had reported it as a scam), but they told me they had no information about previous listings. So that was weird. That being said, one part of the story included a verifiable detail - the Denmark regulation change. I did some Googling and found that Denmark did, in fact, institute some changes regarding vehicle registration and it seemed quite likely that a car from the 80s wouldn't meet their new green emission requirements. However, that change was from a year ago. Which was another red flag. However, it was also possible that the seller just kept the car for awhile, trying to get it registered and finally gave up. And the seller had attached pictures of a Delorean that a reverse Google search didn't find, so I e-mailed back: "Hi, Greg. Yes, I'm still interested in the car. What legislation changed making the car so hard to register? Sorry to hear that. Do you have a picture of the title with the VIN? And, just for my own sanity, can we do a Skype or Discord video call (something that works between the US and Denmark) so I can see the car? Looks like Denmark is seven hours ahead of me, but my time is flexible for whatever time works for you." I was 95% sure it was a scammer, but I was going to find out. The reply I received: "Thank you for your reply.As I told you in my last email, if you decide to buy the vehicle we have to deliver it to your location. I can take care of this. We can use the same transportation company that I used in the past when I shipped the vehicle from the USA to Denmark. The transportation fee will be paid by me. They will deliver the vehicle to your location (your address) and also they will allow you to check the vehicle before the transaction is completed. The delivery company will act as a third party in our transaction. The delivery time will take around 15-20 days. You will not send me any money, the money will be received by the shipping company after they will pick up the vehicle and the title from my place (payment will be held by a US bank) and they will release the money to my account only after you check and test the vehicle at your location. I think in this way we both can be safe. It's a good company with over 30 years experience in this domain. Let's talk by phone so we can discuss everything better. Leave me a number where I can reach you at. Best wishes, Greg" This took the scam-meter from 95% to 100%. Obviously, if I were legitimately purchasing a car from Denmark, it'd have to be shipped to me. But the seller (who is already supposedly selling at 25% of fair market value) isn't going to eat the $3,000 shipping fee. So that was another red flag. And there's no universe in which I'd be able to just simply decline and have it sent back (thus this shipping company eating a $3,000 return fee). It's completely clear the transportation company is going to actually just be the seller (or a money mule). So I replied with the only way I'd actually buy a vehicle and ship it internationally, very interested in what the response would be: "What we can do, after we video chat and I see the Delorean in action, is this: 1. You talk to your international shipping company and determine the cost of shipping. Might be quite a bit cheaper to ship to a local hub, like Salt Lake City, Las Vegas, or Denver, than directly to my house (and I can pick it up from one of those three hubs). 2. You let me know how much the shipping will cost. 3. I find a reputable international escrow company, such as JP Morgan, and create an escrow account with the cost of the car plus the cost of the shipping. 4. Once the money is in escrow, you ship the Delorean (this means you pay the shipping cost out of pocket initially (but you were willing to cover it anyway), and then get reimbursed the shipping cost by me via the escrow account). 5. Once I receive the Delorean, the money (purchase price plus shipping cost) will be released from the escrow account to you." The scammer never replied. I did not e-mail further. This is just my story, in case it helps other people recognize red flags.
