Year: 2023
Author: Shmeister
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/findapath/comments/1287hy4/uncertain_of_where_to_go_from_here/

TLDR: Got a BS in psych, got jobs in writing/editing, but don’t know if I’m happy. Looking into fields involving nature, disasters, pretty much anything not in an office. Potentially welding. I’m F22 and I feel like I’m not going into the right field. I got a BS in neuropsychology and a minor in anthropology, but couldn’t obtain research experience due to the pandemic. Writing was always a passion of mine, so I turned to that with a little bit of encouragement and advice from a mentor. Got one part-time job as an editor for bioscience/biotech curriculum, then another as a “technical” writer for a health center (it was really just copywriting). I love editing, but I don’t like working with marketing or advertising material. I enjoy the script editing I do for the other job, but it’s the same concepts repackaged over and over. Also, the curriculum editor job could be labeled as a junior instructional designer, and I’ve found that I’m not great at teaching or explaining things simply. I worry about moving into the technical writing field because of that. I’m tired of staring at screens all day and feeling cooped up in my home office, and I’m only 1 year into this field. I don’t plan to go into more neuropsych studies because while I love the topic, it’s hard to see myself working in academia. My work experience is very limited (receptionist, editor, writer). But I’ve always been interested in doing something with nature and the environment. Natural disasters and extreme weather events are fascinating to me. I love hiking and being out in nature. I’m all for creating green spaces and reviving dying environments. I genuinely considered getting a certificate in meteorology/geology/GIS from my university, but I couldn’t decide at that time and it wasn’t “helpful to my major.” Also, I’m interested in forging and welding. I took a weekend forging/welding class and loved every second of it. Apparently, even after only 2 hours of welding practice, my beads were pretty clear and I had potential (sources: the instructor, someone who welded for a year, and someone who sells and sometimes inspects pipes.) It’s difficult to figure out where I want to go with my early career (since it’ll probably change later) and I’m not sure what’s out there. Any suggestions for a generalist like me are welcome! Thanks in advance!
