Year: 2020
Author: MeowieCatty
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/NarcissisticAbuse/comments/hcheah/one_month_without_n_and_feeling_conflicted/

I had a friend for a few years. We were always just friends and platonic, but we did live together for a year. The first few months of friendship were amazing, then she changed. She has been a revolving door of issues and emotional trauma. Whenever she wanted attention she would have an emergency. For example, she wanted to be out late exploring town. I told her I was uncomfortable wandering the town after dark because a group of men were making sexual comments to me then told me they wanted to "take me somewhere where nobody would ever see or hear me again" before physically dragging me at work. I got extremely lucky and a security guard came and helped me while these men were still pulling me along. She got upset, told me I had no reason to be upset because she was raped for 24 hours straight and still went to work the next morning and carried on her life. She told me hers was more recent and she was fine going out at night. Later that day when I saw a pretty red lipstick she told me loudly in the store that I couldn't buy it because I would be too afraid a man would rape me and was too emotional to not have a panic attack (I never once panicked, I was just set the boundary that I was not wanting to be out super late in a quiet and dark neighborhood with a high crime rate) When I would refuse to visit her she would send me images of her wrists bruised, burnt, and bleeding. She spent nearly a year telling me she was suicidal. I was afraid to post pictures with my other friends because she sent me so many threats. I have also caught her in a few lies. 3 years ago she told me her father had less than 6 months to live and he is still alive. She told me she was having her uterus removed then posted herself drinking wine on snapchat. She told me and a few others that she was sexually assaulted, then told me that it was actually consensual but she regretted it since he was a jerk and didn't even get her off and he deserved to be bad mouthed. She also told me she had become very close with two of my best friends and that they supported me and her being close, yet the two best friends told me they hated her and had her blocked, one of them said she just showed up at their house and acted like they were close. She has also told me that she knows she is abusing me, but she can't help it and me staying just shows what a good friend I am. I blocked this woman a month ago, and I am scared. I don't really want to be her friend, but what if she did actually hurt herself. Part of me really wants to unblock her, I feel like a jerk, but the other part of me does not want to give her any room to come back. Part of me also misses the woman I first met, I loved her in a platonic friendship way. She was so much fun and I really don't understand how things got so bad so fast.
