Year: 2020
Author: d0aflamingo
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/jdnd1a/my_experience_with_it_cell_members/

I cant say for others experience, but now its been multiple times this technique has worked against IT cell members. Whenever arguing with IT cell member on twitter, i observed engaging with them is a pig fight, they're gonna drag you into dirt and they'll enjoy every bit of it. I was once arguing with one fellow and in the heat of argument, i lost my cool and started arguing on how he could never afford a life like me with his IT cell job. The guy was like literally shot down. He replied with okays then silence. I really felt bad for saying so because we're all from decent and well doing family and its not his fault for being forced into doing that job. For a day or so, i decided not to comment, but some of the troll's comments were making me far too furious, eg. trying to mislead with fake statstics, communal tension filled fake news, or outright abusing minorities and patriots. I once again ran my mouth with the same argument about how he/ she will always be poor with that job, and it fucking worked. He/she most of the times either fucked off completely from that thread or started replying with less stupidity. I completely understand how fucked up is calling out on someones circumstances, but the only thing running in my mind is how detrimental they are to secularsim and alongside paid media are one of the reason our country is in shambles right now. (also the fact that people are stupid). I also had a heated conversation with some troll once, who cooled down at the middle, and i asked him if he lives in mumbai, then i could help him find a good job. It seems he was not educated and did not disclose anything about himself. I joked that with a good job, he'd even find a good girl. Then even he started joking that maybe i should find him a girl first, job will follow. After this conversation i realized they are just poor people trying to make their ends meet, at the expense of India's secular fabric...kinda paradoxical.
