Year: 2020
Author: Rexxington
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/rant/comments/ivkz3u/animal_control_does_nothing_when_it_comes_to_dogs/

I'm so annoyed that animal control ignored blatant sings of animal abuse when it came to my neighbors dogs. Like when they say ANYTHING to them they immediately hunker down to the ground like as if their about to have the shit beat out of them. Then the other thing about their fucking dogs is that they for a while had 2, then one got put down. Because the both of them were running around the neighborhood. Which they had also been warned numerous times about this by animal control. Yet they still let them run loose cause their shit owners. We're attacking people and kids, and they only lost one dog at the end of it all. Well they both attacked me on my own property at one point. I had a trowel with me as I was working in the garden and made good use of that whenever they went for my legs to try and bring me down. Back up to.my house where they eventually backed off and then immediately got my mother. Walked to the neighbors how where they immediately tried to circle me and my mother and attack use. At that point we grabbed shovels and had to use them to fend them off at some points. Showed the neighbors what their stupid dogs had done and got a half assed apology. Then a few weeks after that animal control took one away and put it down. Like why, why the fuck would you only take one when both of them are attacking people?! Like hell, when my mother went to their house a couple months ago, the one they didn't take away. Walked up to my mother, she literally paid no mind to him, and he bit the crap out of her hand and drew blood. I was livid when I found out and she refused to call animal control. Because she reasoned that because she was in his territory that made it okay. Im writing this now because the stupid dog tried to attack the neighbors daughter in their own yard. The dog came extremely close to being shot, I wish he would of shot it honestly. So now there's a whole dispute over it when this should of never happened. As if animal control had done their job they would of realized the fact that both dogs were equally as dangerous. Along with the literal abuse the neighbors were putting them through that made them act the way they did. Total failure on their end and it frustrates me to no end how many people they fucking hurt. Because they refused to control their damn dogs.
