Year: 2020
Author: heroiclord
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/tipofmyjoystick/comments/i4jz0d/pc1999side_scrolling_adventurecartoonpixilated/

Hey guys! I remember playing a game while I was at elementary school, and I am hoping that you guys can help me figure it out. I will try to adhere to a logical format with a description at the bottom. Platform: Side scrolling Platformer with exploration. As in you can jump up platforms up and down and have access to different areas (I think). Think of Super Mario Bros, and you have the type of side scrolling, camera angle, and a general platform type. Year: 1995 - 2004 (no later than 2004). I want to say before 2000, but I am honestly just not sure. Graphics: cartoon with a pixilated look (once again like Super Mario Bros). I remember the graphics to be bright and fun. I also want to say most (if not all?) of the game was in a forest setting. Character: you play a boy/girl. I can’t remember anything of great detail that could help. Mechanics: I will probably ramble a little here. If I remember, the point of the game was to explore each area that you are in and find key parts. The key began to assemble in one of the corners of the game interface as you find the pieces. You had to avoid these monsters that would attack and kill you (definitely with melee, can’t remember if they had ranged attacks). Your character couldn’t fight at all. You could only jump and cover the monsters with a pink goo by jumping over them (and maybe a stun if you jump on the monster?). You would have to explore the whole map to find the princes of the key. Once found, you had to find the exit (a treehouse?). It could be anywhere in the map I believe, not just at the furtherest right part of the map. I don’t think there were any safe areas. I don’t remember if there was an inventory or if there were any items that you could collect. I don’t know if you could just save the game at any point or if you could only save at specific locations. I just know it was a kids game and it was intuitive enough for young kids to know how to play without a tutorial of sorts). As I said, this is a PC game that I played at school during down time. So, while it could have been a DOS game installed on windows 95/98, I’m pretty sure it was programmed for 95/98. My elementary school had no IT department at that time, so the teachers would have had to install the game and what not. As I said, while possible it was a DOS game, I’m pretty sure is was for 95/98. I need to make that distinction because I (apparently) used DOS to play games as a kid. That is about as much of the game that I remember. I know it’s not a whole lot to go on, but I wanted to ask and see if anyone knew. Thank you!
