Year: 2020
Author: Serpenthrope
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/dccrpg/comments/gi0kcf/unexpected_issue_and_need_some_advice_to_handle_it/

Oh boy, I need some GMing advice! I've already posted about my current plans for my campaign. Now, I've run four funnels, and I let my three current players (our fourth player has dropped out for now due to personal issues) pick their two favorite characters each, so I could run Sisters of the Moon Furnace as a first level adventure (I've run it twice previously as a Funnel). My players haven't exactly behaved as expected (I had to stop Moon Furnace early due to a migraine). Basically, they totally ignored the well, decided against picking up the jewels, and have generally been super cautious (they've been through four funnels), used two characters who rolled incredibly high on HP as meat shields, and generally been insanely cautious. However, the thing that really left me a bit stumped was when they faced the astronauts and the Walrus statue. When the Wizard saw the Walrus attack the astronauts he figured they weren't the threat, and rolled a Natural 20 to cast Magic Missile on the Walrus, thus one-shotting it. The Cleric then made a Personality check to convince the Astronauts that they weren't hostile. I did rule that the Astronauts spoke a different language, but they still communicated through drawings. The big problem I have is that my entire campaign hinged on the Party being told that they had a choice between becoming the Champions of Aphelion and going on a mission for Numon, or being chased by demons to the ends of Aereth like they're Guts from Berserk. But, if these Astronauts survive and escape the Moon Furnace, then it would only be logical for them to also be among the Champions of Aphelion, but three NPC Astronauts who don't speak the language really seems like a more trouble than it's worth, but I don't want to railroad. Also, I can't go with "they returned to their world," because two of the PCs are already MCC characters, and thus also from another world. How would you handle this so that their choices have consequences, but I don't have to drag around three NPCs?
