Year: 2020
Author: roonilwazlib96
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/AmItheAsshole/comments/fpc5qm/wibta_if_i_make_a_moderately_large_purchase/

I think I know what the answer may be, but please hear me out. My partner and I (mid-late 20s) have been together 3 years, living together for 2. We love each other very much but we do disagree on a number of things, which always adds some liveliness. Due to reasons, I don’t drive, and don’t have use of a car. A while back I decided to get my motorcycle license as an alternative as we cannot fit a second car into the garage, and it solves my travel issues. My partner was not supportive of this at all (I have made posts about this before) and has actively expressed his concerns regarding this in a non-helpful way. I thought he eventually came around to the idea of me riding and we went bike shopping a few times, but there was always a reason not to buy the bike, no matter how obtuse (he didn’t like the repayment options, it didn’t come in the colour that we agreed on, the dealership was in an inconvenient place etc). In the meantime, I sometimes ride my friends bike to make sure I don’t get too rusty. My mate who’s bike I sometimes ride told me he’s selling the bike as he’s upgrading, and is offering to sell it to me for 1k, which is a really decent price. My mate wants to sell it within the fortnight, as he’s been laid off work and needs the money. I have an inheritance coming through this week, and between thst and my current job, I can easily afford it, but it means I don’t put money in our joint savings this week. I haven’t really made any big expenditures either in the entire time we’ve been together; this would be the only time where anything I’ve bought will affect our savings account. I explained to my partner the opportunity to buy the bike and how I want to go for it, however he went on a rant about how I don’t know the hidden expenses there would be and I’m too naive to make smart decisions for this climate, despite the fact that I’ve proven multiple times I am aware of every cost. I pointed out that it’s a cheap, smart option and will be a lot cheaper in the long run, especially considering how expensive public transport is when the job requires you to travel across different parts of the state. My partner understands that he can’t really stop me, but is still arguing that I’m making an stupid decision seeing as we’re heading towards a recession, and buying an item that will affect our savings, even in a small way, is an AH move. He’s agreed that it’s my choice and to do what I want, but has become cold and aloof, and is giving the silent treatment. I know financially we can handle it, but I think he’s trying to find excuses so I don’t ride like he has before. I do need this bike as not having a transportation mode is affecting my work and my personal life, and it’s a great opportunity for me. WIBTA if I buy the bike without the full support of my partner? Edit 1: My partner’s concern previously was regarding safety. My OG post about the bike issue can be found here He’s not as controlling or toxic as people are making him out to be, he’s actually pretty wonderful- he’s just concerned and overly paranoid about safety and finance.
