Year: 2020
Author: dualitybyslipknot
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/unpopularopinion/comments/gr3hvw/body_positivity_is_about_making_fat_and_disabled/

I always see people arguing about the ‘body positivity movement’ on the internet and it’s exhausting. You see the same old talking points over and over again about how it ‘promotes obesity’ and ‘fat people should just lose weight’. A couple things: You would never see these same people commenting on pictures of thin women EVER saying they should stop ‘promoting unhealthy body types’. The only exception is someone who is severely anorexic (think Eugenia Cooney prior to starting treatment). But that is more jarring and obvious. Some of the most unhealthy people I’ve ever known were also very thin. Why? Because they smoked cigarettes and drank coffee all day long instead of eating... and were addicted to drugs. But to the casual observer they wouldn’t ‘look’ that exceptionally unhealthy. You actually can’t determine what someone’s health is by their body weight AND EVEN IF YOU CAN it is not your business and they could have an illness that makes them gain weight. It’s also important to understand that shaming people for being overweight and making them feel ugly and gross is never going to help them lose weight. Binge eating and disordered eating in general is a mental illness and by making people feel bad about themselves constantly you aren’t helping them. You need motivation for weight loss, if you are stuck in a depressed rut you are NOT going to be able to lose weight in a healthy way and keep it off. Or even have the mental clarity to start being more healthy. The last thing I want to say is that our society places thinness (especially for women) as one of the most important standards of beauty. Nearly everyone who is framed by various forms of media as being ‘sexy’ and ‘beautiful’ is thin/lean. Our society PROMOTES and REWARDS thinness. The entire point of body positivity is to give fat people some motivation to feel good about themselves. This shouldn’t make people angry because it isn’t about you. Yes, even fat people need to feel good about themselves. It is also about disability and other types of bodies you don’t see represented. Often times disability and weight are interconnected. Many disabled people are overweight! Is it REALLY your place to be lecturing them about health? When they have to deal with their medical issues 24/7? Anyways I just wanted to get this off my chest because it is so annoying and disheartening.
