Year: 2020
Author: shushupbuttercup
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/JUSTNOMIL/comments/iuro3v/nextdoor_mil_cant_leave_us_alone/

Longtime listener, first time caller ... I've never really thought I had it "bad" enough to post here, but I have spent lots of time empathizing with you all. I am lucky that it's not call-the-cops or go NC bad over here, and sometimes I wonder if I'm just an impatient, cold bitch. Tell me what I need to hear. Background: NAMES GIVEN ARE NICKNAMES. My partner (P) has lived with his mom (J) for most of his life. He got out for a few years and did a couple of half-assed years of college, got married, got a divorce. Around the same time he got divorced, so did his mom, so he moved back in with her to "help" her and get his mojo back. He and I met a couple of years into this arrangement. While I was hesitant to date a gamer who lived with his mom, here I am 8 years later. My son from another marriage and I live with P, and he's great with the kiddo and we take on too many projects but generally are building a quiet little life together. He owns the duplex we live in, but his name is on the mortgage instead of his mom's because she needed her finances a certain way to continue to qualify for SSI and whatnot (she legit needed it, now she's into retirement age so that's in the past), and so P could start establishing his own good financial health. J lives on the other side of the duplex. She comes into our "side" seemingly at every whim. She doesn't get the hint that it's not a good time (we're eating dinner and giving her one-word answers hoping she'll get out, for example). If we more than hint that she should go, she martyrs herself, and we have to deal with drama or a cold shoulder for a few days. We have house projects - some with the goal of renting out our side and buying a separate house. Also, some that we took on recently for our own fun interests. She also has a ton of projects for P that she "needs." For example, pouring some concrete resin stuff onto her basement floor that she never uses because she can barely go up and down the steps. Her requests for help and attention feel constant, and it's not like a list of things she needs help with for the week. It's like, "Hey, I just thought of this, and I need you to do it now." If P tells her he's busy she becomes emotionally wounded. Anyway, I was moved to write this post today because she called me into her apartment to ask me to talk to P about going to therapy and looking into anti-depressants because he is in her mind constantly screaming at her and exploding over the tiniest thing. The trigger today? He lost the key to his work truck (fucking stupid, I know, he has his own dumb issues), and when he went to get his personal car key from her, he realized that she never registered it. It was the only task he asked of her, as she has had exclusive use of his car for the last 6 months. SHE WANTS ME TO PUSH HIM TO FIND A PSYCHIATRIST so they can start figuring out therapies - which, sure, might be something beneficial to him for his feelings of inadequacy and general anxiety if it's talking about how his FUCKING MOTHER WON'T LET HIM BE AN ADULT. But, she immediately went on about how much her meds help her (let's gloss over the fact that she's helpless, can't take any criticism over anything, talks like she's on shrooms all the time ...) and how it might take a while to figure out what medication will work for him. My response was that I think he needs to feel like a capable adult, and that having his mom tell him what he needs to do constantly is not helping. I told her I have been able to calm him down from his anxieties frequently, and that I don't see him exploding over small stuff the way she thinks he does. I tried to find a kind and gentle way to tell her that I see a 40-year-old with a family, a full-time job, a kid who needs constant virtual school oversight ... and a mother who interrupts him 7-8 times a day and tells him how he needs to be conducting himself, or what projects he should be doing, or how he's let something go too long ... or that she found some "deal" at the thrift store that he needs to go pick up or bring in the house or put together or move around. (Sorry, I didn't get that snarky with her, but typing all this out just made it kind of pour out.) Immediate tears, "I just won't come into your house anymore." She said I always know how to make her cry, that I just laser right in on her triggers. I couldn't get her to understand that that wasn't at all what I was saying - I said, "We want to want to see you, we just need space to get our family stuff done and to have control over our home." She said she can't figure out how to not "make a mistake" so she just won't come over, then went into a sidebar about how she needs to tell P when he makes mistakes like not finishing putting sticky tiles on her kitchen floor (ugh, such a stupid project). I'm sorry, this is super rambly. I'm just so tired of feeling like we have to accommodate all of her whims and feelings constantly, and now she pulled me away from my work to have a serious discussion about really "thinking about P and getting him to go to a psychiatrist." Fuck. I told her I'm his partner and I will support him and encourage him to be an independent, responsible adult, and that if he wants to talk to a professional therapist, I will give him his full support, but I will not even remotely suggest anti-depressants. Anyway .... is she just a concerned mom who lives too close, and I'm just mean and heartless - or is she a meddling, narcissistic, overbearing (also lonely) woman who can't leave my family the fuck alone? Maybe both.
