Entertainment
Subscribe
Sign in
Olympics schedule and events to watch Saturday
By Adrienne Vogt
 2 min read 
Published 7:51 AM EDT, Sat July 31, 2021
Alexander Zverev of Germany plays a backhand during his men's singles semifinal match against Novak Djokovic of Serbia in the Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games on July 30, 2021. 
Alexander Zverev of Germany plays a backhand during his men's singles semifinal match against Novak Djokovic of Serbia in the Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games on July 30, 2021. Ezra Shaw/Getty Images
CNN
 — 
As the 2020 Tokyo Olympic Games get into the second weekend of competition, medals will be awarded in swimming, fencing, judo and tennis, to name a few.

Here are some of the events to watch. Remember, Tokyo is 13 hours ahead of US Eastern Standard Time.

Swimming: Medals in swimming will be given out in the men’s and women’s 50m freestyle, men’s 1500m freestyle, and both the men’s and women’s 4x100m medley relay. All the action airs on NBC starting at 9:30 p.m. ET.

Cycling: Finals of both the men’s and women’s BMX freestyle park will be live on CNBC at 9:10 p.m. ET.

Beach volleyball: Brazil and the US face off in women’s beach volleyball at 11:30 a.m. ET on NBC.

Track and field: Events for track and field include the women’s 100m semifinals and round one of the men’s 100m, with coverage starting on NBC at 9 p.m. ET. The women’s long jump qualifying begins at 8:50 p.m. ET, and the women’s shot put final begins at 9:35 p.m. ET.

Tennis: Switzerland’s Belinda Bencic plays Czech Republic’s Marketa Vondrousova for the gold medal in women’s singles starting at 6 a.m. ET. It airs on NBC starting at 11 a.m. ET. Germany’s Alexander Zverev plays Karen Khachanov of the Russian Olympic Committee for the gold medal in men’s singles, airing at 11 p.m. ET.


AD

Fencing: The women’s sabre team gold medal match starts at 6:30 a.m. ET.

Water polo: Team USA takes on Hungary in men’s water polo at 8:30 a.m. ET on NBC.

Judo: Judo at the Tokyo Games concludes with the finals of the first-ever mixed team competition, airing on USA Network at 2:15 p.m. ET.

Here’s your full guide on how to watch the Olympics and the entire schedule. In between watching events, check out our gallery of the most memorable photos of the Games so far.

Up next

Russia and Belarus fully reinstated by International Paralympic Committee vote
2 minute read

Everything you need to know about how to buy 2026 FIFA World Cup tickets
3 minute read

Israel-Premier Tech cycling team excluded from Italian race due to fears of protests
2 minute read

Fat Bear Week 2025 crowns a winner
2 minute read
Most read
Hegseth pushes to remake the military in his preferred image
Candid photo of Scott Bessent’s phone reveals administration’s concern about two key Trump policies
White House withdraws Trump’s controversial nominee to lead BLS after ousting predecessor over jobs data
Search CNN...

Subscribe
Sign in
Live TV
Listen
Watch
US
World
Politics
Business
Markets
Health
CNN Underscored
Entertainment
Tech
Style
Travel
Sports
Science
Climate
Weather
Ukraine-Russia War
Israel-Hamas War
Watch
Listen
Games
Amazon Prime Day
About CNN
Entertainment
Follow CNN Entertainment
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Manage Cookies
Ad Choices
Accessibility & CC
About
Subscribe
Newsletters
Transcripts
Help Center
© 2025 Cable News Network. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved.
CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network.
