Author: Soonho Kwon
Title: A Theoretical Investigation into pH of Neat Water at the Nanoscopic Scale Via Rexpon Force Field and Stochastic Simulations
Paper ID: e2a87838c9c7a786cdb253dbfb14dd1d62e2f71f
Year: 2022
Author Index: 10

Abstract:
Design of durable solar CO2 conversion devices requires a mechanistic understanding of molecular-level reactions at the electrode-electrolyte interface that lead to interfacial degradation.[1] This interface often incorporates such features as a porous and rough surface to maximize active area and enhance catalytic performance. However, this roughness may introduce local water pool inclusions, whose size may have an unforeseen, detrimental impact on device durability due to their local pH being very different from the bulk pH. It is well-recognized that for water pools containing less than molecules, the solution pH cannot be defined in the conventional sense because the pools are too small to support stable water ion concentrations near neutral pH. Rather, the water ion concentrations fluctuate to very high values for short periods of time. To better understand pH in small pools, we combine theoretical calculations using QM/MD and stochastic simulations [3]. We combined Ab initio MD and the accurate RexPoN force field [2] simulation to quantify the thermodynamic free energy to create water ion pairs through the reaction as a function of the water pool size. The free energies are used to calculate the equilibrium constants for this reaction and the ion pair generation and recombination rate constants. The rate constants are then used as inputs to the stochastic simulations to gain insights into ion pair generation frequency and lifetime statistics over extended periods of time (hours). Proton and hydroxide diffusion are also incorporated in the stochastic simulation to understand how far water ions may travel from where they are generated. The results show that the combination of Grotthuss and vehicular diffusion mechanisms for H3O+ and OH- can lead to unequal distributions at an adjacent interface. We will discuss how the stochastic generation and recombination of water ions influences buffer chemistry and dissolved CO2 chemistry.
 Reference
 [1] S. Nitopi, E. Bertheussen, S.B. Scott, X. Liu, A.K. Engstfeld, S. Horch, B. Seger, I.E.L. Stephens, K. Chan, C. Hahn, J.K. Nørskov, T.F. Jaramillo, I. Chorkendorff, Progress and Perspectives of Electrochemical CO2 Reduction on Copper in Aqueous Electrolyte, Chem. Rev. 119 (2019) 7610–7672. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.8b00705.
 [2] S. Naserifar, W.A. Goddard, The quantum mechanics-based polarizable force field for water simulations, J. Chem. Phys. 149 (2018). https://doi.org/10.1063/1.5042658.
 [3] W.D. Hinsberg, F.A. Houle, Kinetiscope, (n.d.). http://www.hinsberg.net/kinetiscope.